pages/docs/getting-started/quick-start/python.mdx, before:

export const description =
  `Get started with Inngest in this ten-minute Python tutorial`

{/* This is a duplicate of /docs/reference/python/overview/quick-start.mdx, which will soon be deleted*/}

# Python Quick Start

This guide will teach you how to add Inngest to a FastAPI app and run an Inngest function.

<Callout variant="info">
  💡 Inngest currently supports DigitalOcean Functions, Django, FastAPI, Flask, and Tornado. If you'd like support for your favorite framework please open an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-py)!
</Callout>

---

## Create an app

<Callout variant="warning">
  ⚠️ Use Python 3.9 or higher.
</Callout>

Create and source virtual environment:
```sh
python -m venv .venv && source .venv/bin/activate
```

Install dependencies:
```sh
pip install fastapi inngest uvicorn
```

Create a FastAPI app file:

```py {{ filename: "main.py" }}
from fastapi import FastAPI

app = FastAPI()
```

---

## Add Inngest

Let's add Inngest to the app! We'll do a few things
1. Create an **Inngest client**, which is used to send events to an Inngest server.
1. Create an **Inngest function**, which receives events.
1. Serve the **Inngest endpoint** on the FastAPI app.

```py {{ filename: "main.py" }}
import logging
from fastapi import FastAPI
import inngest
import inngest.fast_api

# Create an Inngest client
inngest_client = inngest.Inngest(
    app_id="fast_api_example",
    logger=logging.getLogger("uvicorn"),
)

# Create an Inngest function
@inngest_client.create_function(
    fn_id="my_function",
    # Event that triggers this function
    trigger=inngest.TriggerEvent(event="app/my_function"),
)
async def my_function(ctx: inngest.Context, step: inngest.Step) -> str:
    ctx.logger.info(ctx.event)
    return "done"

app = FastAPI()

# Serve the Inngest endpoint
inngest.fast_api.serve(app, inngest_client, [my_function])
```

Start your app:
```sh
(INNGEST_DEV=1 uvicorn main:app --reload)
```

<Callout variant="info">
  💡 The `INNGEST_DEV` environment variable tells the Inngest SDK to run in "dev mode". By default, the SDK will start in [production mode](/docs/reference/python/overview/prod-mode). We made production mode opt-out for security reasons.

  Always set `INNGEST_DEV` when you want to sync with the Dev Server. Never set `INNGEST_DEV` when you want to sync with Inngest Cloud.
</Callout>

---

## Run Inngest Dev Server

Inngest functions are run using an **Inngest server**. For this guide we'll use the [Dev Server](https://github.com/inngest/inngest), which is a single-binary version of our [Cloud](https://app.inngest.com) offering. The Dev Server is great for local development and testing, while Cloud is for deployed apps (e.g. production).

Start the Dev Server:

<CodeGroup>
```sh {{ title: "npx (npm)" }}
npx inngest-cli@latest dev -u http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/inngest --no-discovery
```
```sh {{ title: "Docker" }}
docker run -p 8288:8288 inngest/inngest \
  inngest dev -u http://host.docker.internal:8000/api/inngest --no-discovery
```
</CodeGroup>

After a few seconds, your app and function should now appear in the Dev Server UI:

<img src="/assets/docs/python/quick-start-app.png" />

<img src="/assets/docs/python/quick-start-functions.png" />

<Callout variant="info">
  💡 You can sync multiple apps and multiple functions within each app.
</Callout>

---

## Run your function

Click the function's "Trigger" button and a run should appear in the Dev Server stream tab:

<img src="/assets/docs/python/quick-start-run.png" />

Commit message:

Feature example apps in the Python Quick Start (#792)
* adds links to the example apps in the python quickstart

* Update pages/docs/getting-started/quick-start/python.mdx

Co-authored-by: Dan Farrelly <djfarrelly@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Dan Farrelly <djfarrelly@users.noreply.github.com>

pages/docs/getting-started/quick-start/python.mdx, after:

export const description =
  `Get started with Inngest in this ten-minute Python tutorial`

{/* This is a duplicate of /docs/reference/python/overview/quick-start.mdx, which will soon be deleted*/}

# Python Quick Start

This guide will teach you how to add Inngest to a FastAPI app and run an Inngest function.

<Callout variant="info">
  💡 If you prefer to explore code instead, here are example apps in the frameworks currently supported by Inngest:  [FastAPI](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-py/tree/main/examples/fast_api), [Django](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-py/tree/main/examples/django),  [Flask](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-py/tree/main/examples/flask), [DigitalOcean Functions](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-py/tree/main/examples/digital_ocean), and [Tornado](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-py/tree/main/examples/tornado). 
  
  Is your favorite framework missing here? Please open an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-py)!
</Callout>

---

## Create an app

<Callout variant="warning">
  ⚠️ Use Python 3.9 or higher.
</Callout>

Create and source virtual environment:
```sh
python -m venv .venv && source .venv/bin/activate
```

Install dependencies:
```sh
pip install fastapi inngest uvicorn
```

Create a FastAPI app file:

```py {{ filename: "main.py" }}
from fastapi import FastAPI

app = FastAPI()
```

---

## Add Inngest

Let's add Inngest to the app! We'll do a few things
1. Create an **Inngest client**, which is used to send events to an Inngest server.
1. Create an **Inngest function**, which receives events.
1. Serve the **Inngest endpoint** on the FastAPI app.

```py {{ filename: "main.py" }}
import logging
from fastapi import FastAPI
import inngest
import inngest.fast_api

# Create an Inngest client
inngest_client = inngest.Inngest(
    app_id="fast_api_example",
    logger=logging.getLogger("uvicorn"),
)

# Create an Inngest function
@inngest_client.create_function(
    fn_id="my_function",
    # Event that triggers this function
    trigger=inngest.TriggerEvent(event="app/my_function"),
)
async def my_function(ctx: inngest.Context, step: inngest.Step) -> str:
    ctx.logger.info(ctx.event)
    return "done"

app = FastAPI()

# Serve the Inngest endpoint
inngest.fast_api.serve(app, inngest_client, [my_function])
```

Start your app:
```sh
(INNGEST_DEV=1 uvicorn main:app --reload)
```

<Callout variant="info">
  💡 The `INNGEST_DEV` environment variable tells the Inngest SDK to run in "dev mode". By default, the SDK will start in [production mode](/docs/reference/python/overview/prod-mode). We made production mode opt-out for security reasons.

  Always set `INNGEST_DEV` when you want to sync with the Dev Server. Never set `INNGEST_DEV` when you want to sync with Inngest Cloud.
</Callout>

---

## Run Inngest Dev Server

Inngest functions are run using an **Inngest server**. For this guide we'll use the [Dev Server](https://github.com/inngest/inngest), which is a single-binary version of our [Cloud](https://app.inngest.com) offering. The Dev Server is great for local development and testing, while Cloud is for deployed apps (e.g. production).

Start the Dev Server:

<CodeGroup>
```sh {{ title: "npx (npm)" }}
npx inngest-cli@latest dev -u http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/inngest --no-discovery
```
```sh {{ title: "Docker" }}
docker run -p 8288:8288 inngest/inngest \
  inngest dev -u http://host.docker.internal:8000/api/inngest --no-discovery
```
</CodeGroup>

After a few seconds, your app and function should now appear in the Dev Server UI:

<img src="/assets/docs/python/quick-start-app.png" />

<img src="/assets/docs/python/quick-start-functions.png" />

<Callout variant="info">
  💡 You can sync multiple apps and multiple functions within each app.
</Callout>

---

## Run your function

Click the function's "Trigger" button and a run should appear in the Dev Server stream tab:

<img src="/assets/docs/python/quick-start-run.png" />
