pages/docs/reference/functions/create.mdx, before:

# Create Function

Define your functions using the `createFunction` method on the [Inngest client](/docs/reference/client/create).

```ts
import { inngest } from "./client";

export default inngest.createFunction(
  { name: "Import product images" },
  { event: "shop/product.imported" },
  async ({ event, step, runId }) => {
    // Your function code
  }
);
```

---

## `inngest.createFunction(configuration, trigger, handler): InngestFunction`

The `createFunction` method accepts a series of arguments to define your function.

### Configuration

<Properties>
  <Property name="name" type="string" required>
    A unique name for your function. This will be used to create a unique slug `id` by default.
  </Property>
  <Property name="id" type="string">
    A unique identifier for your function to override the default (a slug of your function name).
  </Property>
  <Property name="concurrency" type="number">
    Limit the number of concurrently running functions ([reference](/docs/functions/concurrency))
  </Property>
  <Property name="batchEvents" type="object">
    Configure how the function should consume batches of events ([reference](/docs/guides/batching))

    <Properties nested={true}>
      <Property name="maxSize" type="number" required>
        The maximum number of events a batch can have. Current limit is `100`.
      </Property>
      <Property name="timeout" type="string" required>
        How long to wait before invoking the function with the batch even if it's not full.
        Current permitted values are from `1s` to `60s`.
      </Property>
    </Properties>
  </Property>
  <Property name="retries" type="number">
    Configure the number of times the function will be retried from `0` to `20`. Default: `3`
  </Property>
  <Property name="onFailure" type="function">
    A function that will be called only when this Inngest function fails after all retries have been attempted ([reference](/docs/reference/functions/handling-failures))
  </Property>
  <Property name="cancelOn" type="object">
    Define an event that can be used to cancel a running or sleeping function ([reference](/docs/functions/cancellation))
    <Properties nested={true}>
      <Property name="event" type="string" required>
        The event name which will be used to cancel
      </Property>
      <Property name="match" type="string">
        The property to match the event trigger and the cancelling event, using dot-notation, e.g. `data.userId`
      </Property>
      <Property name="timeout" type="string">
        The amount of time to wait to receive the cancelling event. A time string compatible with the [ms](https://npm.im/ms) package, e.g. `"30m"`, `"3 hours"`, or `"2.5d"`
      </Property>
    </Properties>
  </Property>
</Properties>

{/* TODO - Document fns arg */}

### Trigger

One of the following function triggers is **Required**.

<Properties>
  <Property name="event" type="string">
    The name of the event that will trigger this event to run
  </Property>
  <Property name="cron" type="string">
    A [unix-cron](https://crontab.guru/) compatible schedule string. <br/>Optional timezone prefix, e.g. `TZ=Europe/Paris 0 12 * * 5`.
  </Property>
</Properties>

### Handler

The handler is your code that runs whenever the trigger occurs. Every function handler receives a single object argument which can be deconstructed. The key arguments are `event` and `step`. Note, that scheduled functions that use a `cron` trigger will not receive an `event` argument.

```ts
function handler({ event, events, step, runId, logger }) {/* ... */}
```

#### `event`

The event payload `object` that triggered the given function run. The event payload object will match what you send with [`inngest.send()`](/docs/reference/events/send). Below is an example event payload object:

```ts
{
  name: "app/account.created",
  data: {
    userId: "1234567890"
  },
  v: "2023-05-12.1",
  ts: 1683898268584
}
```

#### `events` <VersionBadge version="v2.2.0+" />

`events` is an array of `event` payload objects that's accessible when the `batchEvents` is set on the function configuration.
If batching is not configured, the array contains a single event payload matching the `event` argument.

#### `step`

The `step` object has methods that enable you to define

- [`step.run()`](/docs/reference/functions/step-run) - Run synchronous or asynchronous code as a retryable step in your function
- [`step.sleep()`](/docs/reference/functions/step-sleep) - Sleep for a given amount of time
- [`step.sleepUntil()`](/docs/reference/functions/step-sleep-until) - Sleep until a given time
- [`step.waitForEvent()`](/docs/reference/functions/step-wait-for-event) - Pause a function's execution until another event is received
- [`step.sendEvent()`](/docs/reference/functions/step-send-event) - Send event(s) reliability within your function. Use this instead of `inngest.send()` to ensure reliable event delivery from within functions.

#### `runId`

The unique ID for the given function run. This can be useful for logging and looking up specific function runs in the Inngest dashboard.

#### `logger` <VersionBadge version="v2.0.0+" />

The `logger` object exposes the following interfaces.

```ts
export interface Logger {
  info(...args: any[]): void;
  warn(...args: any[]): void;
  error(...args: any[]): void;
  debug(...args: any[]): void;
}
```

It is a proxy object that is either backed by `console` or the logger you provided ([reference](/docs/guides/logging)).

Commit message:

Add `attempt` to function creation reference

pages/docs/reference/functions/create.mdx, after:

# Create Function

Define your functions using the `createFunction` method on the [Inngest client](/docs/reference/client/create).

```ts
import { inngest } from "./client";

export default inngest.createFunction(
  { name: "Import product images" },
  { event: "shop/product.imported" },
  async ({ event, step, runId }) => {
    // Your function code
  }
);
```

---

## `inngest.createFunction(configuration, trigger, handler): InngestFunction`

The `createFunction` method accepts a series of arguments to define your function.

### Configuration

<Properties>
  <Property name="name" type="string" required>
    A unique name for your function. This will be used to create a unique slug `id` by default.
  </Property>
  <Property name="id" type="string">
    A unique identifier for your function to override the default (a slug of your function name).
  </Property>
  <Property name="concurrency" type="number">
    Limit the number of concurrently running functions ([reference](/docs/functions/concurrency))
  </Property>
  <Property name="batchEvents" type="object">
    Configure how the function should consume batches of events ([reference](/docs/guides/batching))

    <Properties nested={true}>
      <Property name="maxSize" type="number" required>
        The maximum number of events a batch can have. Current limit is `100`.
      </Property>
      <Property name="timeout" type="string" required>
        How long to wait before invoking the function with the batch even if it's not full.
        Current permitted values are from `1s` to `60s`.
      </Property>
    </Properties>
  </Property>
  <Property name="retries" type="number">
    Configure the number of times the function will be retried from `0` to `20`. Default: `3`
  </Property>
  <Property name="onFailure" type="function">
    A function that will be called only when this Inngest function fails after all retries have been attempted ([reference](/docs/reference/functions/handling-failures))
  </Property>
  <Property name="cancelOn" type="object">
    Define an event that can be used to cancel a running or sleeping function ([reference](/docs/functions/cancellation))
    <Properties nested={true}>
      <Property name="event" type="string" required>
        The event name which will be used to cancel
      </Property>
      <Property name="match" type="string">
        The property to match the event trigger and the cancelling event, using dot-notation, e.g. `data.userId`
      </Property>
      <Property name="timeout" type="string">
        The amount of time to wait to receive the cancelling event. A time string compatible with the [ms](https://npm.im/ms) package, e.g. `"30m"`, `"3 hours"`, or `"2.5d"`
      </Property>
    </Properties>
  </Property>
</Properties>

{/* TODO - Document fns arg */}

### Trigger

One of the following function triggers is **Required**.

<Properties>
  <Property name="event" type="string">
    The name of the event that will trigger this event to run
  </Property>
  <Property name="cron" type="string">
    A [unix-cron](https://crontab.guru/) compatible schedule string. <br/>Optional timezone prefix, e.g. `TZ=Europe/Paris 0 12 * * 5`.
  </Property>
</Properties>

### Handler

The handler is your code that runs whenever the trigger occurs. Every function handler receives a single object argument which can be deconstructed. The key arguments are `event` and `step`. Note, that scheduled functions that use a `cron` trigger will not receive an `event` argument.

```ts
function handler({ event, events, step, runId, logger, attempt }) {/* ... */}
```

#### `event`

The event payload `object` that triggered the given function run. The event payload object will match what you send with [`inngest.send()`](/docs/reference/events/send). Below is an example event payload object:

```ts
{
  name: "app/account.created",
  data: {
    userId: "1234567890"
  },
  v: "2023-05-12.1",
  ts: 1683898268584
}
```

#### `events` <VersionBadge version="v2.2.0+" />

`events` is an array of `event` payload objects that's accessible when the `batchEvents` is set on the function configuration.
If batching is not configured, the array contains a single event payload matching the `event` argument.

#### `step`

The `step` object has methods that enable you to define

- [`step.run()`](/docs/reference/functions/step-run) - Run synchronous or asynchronous code as a retryable step in your function
- [`step.sleep()`](/docs/reference/functions/step-sleep) - Sleep for a given amount of time
- [`step.sleepUntil()`](/docs/reference/functions/step-sleep-until) - Sleep until a given time
- [`step.waitForEvent()`](/docs/reference/functions/step-wait-for-event) - Pause a function's execution until another event is received
- [`step.sendEvent()`](/docs/reference/functions/step-send-event) - Send event(s) reliability within your function. Use this instead of `inngest.send()` to ensure reliable event delivery from within functions.

#### `runId`

The unique ID for the given function run. This can be useful for logging and looking up specific function runs in the Inngest dashboard.

#### `logger` <VersionBadge version="v2.0.0+" />

The `logger` object exposes the following interfaces.

```ts
export interface Logger {
  info(...args: any[]): void;
  warn(...args: any[]): void;
  error(...args: any[]): void;
  debug(...args: any[]): void;
}
```

It is a proxy object that is either backed by `console` or the logger you provided ([reference](/docs/guides/logging)).

### `attempt` <VersionBadge version="v2.5.0+" />

The current zero-indexed attempt number for this function execution. The first attempt will be 0, the second 1, and so on. The attempt number is incremented every time the function throws an error and is retried.
