pages/docs/reference/functions/step-sleep.mdx, before:

# Sleep `step.sleep()`

Use `step.sleep()` to pause the execution of your function for a specific amount of time.

```ts
export default inngest.createFunction(
  { name: "Send delayed email" },
  { event: "app/user.signup" },
  async ({ event, step }) => {
    await step.sleep("2d");
    // Do something else
  }
);
```

To sleep until a particular date time, use [`step.sleepUntil()`](/docs/reference/functions/step-sleep-until) instead.

---

## `step.sleep(duration): Promise`

<Row>
  <Col>
    <Properties>
      <Property name="duration" type="number | string" required>
        The duration of time to sleep:

        * Number of milliseconds
        * Time string compatible with the [ms](https://npm.im/ms) package, e.g. `"30m"`, `"3 hours"`, or `"2.5d"`
      </Property>
    </Properties>
  </Col>
  <Col>
  ```ts
  // Sleep for 30 minutes
  await step.sleep("30m");
  await step.sleep("30 minutes");
  await step.sleep(30 * 60 * 1000);
  ```
  </Col>
</Row>

<Callout>
  `step.sleep()` must be called using `await` or some other Promise handler to ensure your function sleeps correctly.
</Callout>

Commit message:

Add "do not count to concurrency limit" to sleeps

pages/docs/reference/functions/step-sleep.mdx, after:

# Sleep `step.sleep()`

Use `step.sleep()` to pause the execution of your function for a specific amount of time.

Functions that are sleeping do not count towards [concurrency](/docs/functions/concurrency) limits.

```ts
export default inngest.createFunction(
  { name: "Send delayed email" },
  { event: "app/user.signup" },
  async ({ event, step }) => {
    await step.sleep("2d");
    // Do something else
  }
);
```

To sleep until a particular date time, use [`step.sleepUntil()`](/docs/reference/functions/step-sleep-until) instead.

---

## `step.sleep(duration): Promise`

<Row>
  <Col>
    <Properties>
      <Property name="duration" type="number | string" required>
        The duration of time to sleep:

        * Number of milliseconds
        * Time string compatible with the [ms](https://npm.im/ms) package, e.g. `"30m"`, `"3 hours"`, or `"2.5d"`
      </Property>
    </Properties>
  </Col>
  <Col>
  ```ts
  // Sleep for 30 minutes
  await step.sleep("30m");
  await step.sleep("30 minutes");
  await step.sleep(30 * 60 * 1000);
  ```
  </Col>
</Row>

<Callout>
  `step.sleep()` must be called using `await` or some other Promise handler to ensure your function sleeps correctly.
</Callout>
