pages/docs/reference/functions/step-invoke.mdx, before:

export const description = `Calling Inngest functions directly from other functions with step.invoke()`

# Invoke <VersionBadge version="v3.7.0+" />

Use `step.invoke()` to asynchronously call another function and handle the result. Invoking other functions allows you to easily re-use functionality and compose them to create more complex workflows or map-reduce type jobs. `step.invoke()` returns a `Promise` that resolves with the return value of the invoked function.

```ts
// Some function we'll call
const computeSquare = inngest.createFunction(
  { id: "compute-square" },
  { event: "calculate/square" },
  async ({ event }) => {
    return { result: event.data.number * event.data.number }; // Result typed as { result: number }
  }
);

// In this function, we'll call `computeSquare`
const mainFunction = inngest.createFunction(
  { id: "main-function" },
  { event: "main/event" },
  async ({ step }) => {
    const square = await step.invoke("compute-square-value", {
      function: computeSquare,
      data: { number: 4 }, // input data is typed, requiring input if it's needed
    });

    return `Square of 4 is ${square.result}.`; // square.result is typed as number
  }
);
```

## `step.invoke(id, options): Promise`

<Row>
  <Col>
    <Properties>
      <Property name="id" type="string" required>
        The ID of the invocation. This is used in logs and to keep track of the invocation's state across different versions.
      </Property>
      <Property name="options" type="object" required>
        Options for the invocation:
        <Properties nested={true}>
          <Property name="function" type="InngestFunction | InngestFunctionReference" required>
            A local instance of a function or a reference to a function to invoke.
          </Property>
          <Property name="data" type="object">
            Optional data to pass to the invoked function. Will be required and typed if it can be.
          </Property>
          <Property name="user" type="object">
            Optional user context for the invocation.
          </Property>
          <Property name="timeout" type="string | number | Date" version="v3.14.0+">
            {/* Purposefully not mentioning the default timeout of 1 year, as we expect to lower this very soon. */}
            The amount of time to wait for the invoked function to complete. The time to wait can be specified using a `number` of milliseconds, an `ms`-compatible time string like `"1 hour"`, `"30 mins"`, or `"2.5d"`, or a `Date` object.

            Note that the invoked function will continue to run even if this step times out.
          </Property>
        </Properties>
        Throwing errors within the invoked function will be reflected in the invoking function.
      </Property>
    </Properties>
  </Col>
  <Col>
    <CodeGroup title="Invoke a function directly">
    ```ts
    const resultFromDirectCall = await step.invoke("invoke-by-definition", {
      function: anotherFunction,
      data: { ... },
    });
    ```
    </CodeGroup>
    <CodeGroup title="Invoke a function using a function reference">
    ```ts
    const resultFromReference = await step.invoke("invoke-by-reference", {
      function: referenceFunction(...),
      data: { ... },
    });
    ```
    </CodeGroup>
    <CodeGroup title="Invoke a function with a timeout">
    ```ts
    const resultFromDirectCall = await step.invoke("invoke-with-timeout", {
      function: anotherFunction,
      data: { ... },
      timeout: "1h",
    });
    ```
    </CodeGroup>
  </Col>
</Row>

## How to call `step.invoke()`

Handling `step.invoke()` is similar to handling any other Promise in JavaScript:

```ts
// Using the "await" keyword
const result = await step.invoke("invoke-function", {
  function: someInngestFn,
  data: { ... },
});

// Using `then` for chaining
step
  .invoke("invoke-function", { function: someInngestFn, data: { ... } })
  .then((result) => {
    // further processing
  });

// Running multiple invocations in parallel
Promise.all([
  step.invoke("invoke-first-function", {
    function: firstFunctionReference,
    data: { ... },
  }),
  step.invoke("invoke-second-function", {
    function: secondFn,
    data: { ... },
  }),
]);
```

## Using function references

Instead of directly importing a local function to invoke, [`referenceFunction()`](/docs/functions/references) can be used to call an Inngest function located in another app, or to avoid importing the dependencies of a function within the same app.

```ts
import { referenceFunction } from "inngest";
import { type computePi } from "@/inngest/computePi";

// Create a local reference to a function without importing dependencies
const computePi = referenceFunction<typeof computePi>({
  functionId: "compute-pi",
});

// Create a reference to a function in another application
const computeSquare = referenceFunction({
  appId: "my-python-app",
  functionId: "compute-square",
});

// square.result is typed as a number
const square = await step.invoke("compute-square-value", {
  function: computePi,
  data: { number: 4 }, // input data is typed, requiring input if it's needed
});
```

See [Referencing functions](/docs/functions/references) for more information.

## When to use `step.invoke()`

Use of `step.invoke()` to call an Inngest function directly is more akin to traditional RPC than Inngest's usual event-driven flow. While this tool still uses events behind the scenes, you can use it to help break up your codebase into reusable workflows that can be called from anywhere.

## Internal behaviour

When a function object is passed as an argument, internally, the SDK retrieves the function's ID automatically. Alternatively, if a function ID `string` is passed, the Inngest SDK will assert the ID is correct at runtime. See [Error handling](#error-handling) for more information about this point.

When Inngest receives the request to invoke a function, it'll do so and wait for an `inngest/function.finished` event, which it will use to fulfil the data (or error) for the step.

## Return values & serialization

Similar to `step.run()`, all data returned from `step.invoke()` is serialized as JSON. This is done to enable the SDK to return a valid serialized response to the Inngest service.

## Retries

The invoked function will be executed as a regular Inngest function: it will have its own set of retries and can be seen as a brand new run.

If a `step.invoke()` fails for any of the reasons below, it will throw a `NonRetriableError`. This is to combat compounding retries, such that chains of invoked functions can be executed many more times than expected. For example, if A invokes B which invokes C, which invokes D, on failure D would be run 27 times (`retryCount^n`).

This may change on the future - [let us know](https://roadmap.inngest.com/roadmap?ref=docs) if you'd like to change this.

## Error handling

### Function not found

If Inngest could not find a function to invoke using the given ID (see [Internal behaviour](#internal-behaviour) above), an `inngest/function.finished` event will be sent with an appropriate error and the step will fail with a `NonRetriableError`.

### Invoked function fails

If the function exhausts all retries and fails, an `inngest/function.finished` event will be sent with an appropriate error and the step will fail with a `NonRetriableError`.

## Usage limits

See [usage limits][usage-limits] for more details.

[usage-limits]: /docs/usage-limits/inngest#functions

Commit message:

Add errors to `step.invoke()` `timeout` docs (#681)

pages/docs/reference/functions/step-invoke.mdx, after:

export const description = `Calling Inngest functions directly from other functions with step.invoke()`

# Invoke <VersionBadge version="v3.7.0+" />

Use `step.invoke()` to asynchronously call another function and handle the result. Invoking other functions allows you to easily re-use functionality and compose them to create more complex workflows or map-reduce type jobs. `step.invoke()` returns a `Promise` that resolves with the return value of the invoked function.

```ts
// Some function we'll call
const computeSquare = inngest.createFunction(
  { id: "compute-square" },
  { event: "calculate/square" },
  async ({ event }) => {
    return { result: event.data.number * event.data.number }; // Result typed as { result: number }
  }
);

// In this function, we'll call `computeSquare`
const mainFunction = inngest.createFunction(
  { id: "main-function" },
  { event: "main/event" },
  async ({ step }) => {
    const square = await step.invoke("compute-square-value", {
      function: computeSquare,
      data: { number: 4 }, // input data is typed, requiring input if it's needed
    });

    return `Square of 4 is ${square.result}.`; // square.result is typed as number
  }
);
```

## `step.invoke(id, options): Promise`

<Row>
  <Col>
    <Properties>
      <Property name="id" type="string" required>
        The ID of the invocation. This is used in logs and to keep track of the invocation's state across different versions.
      </Property>
      <Property name="options" type="object" required>
        Options for the invocation:
        <Properties nested={true}>
          <Property name="function" type="InngestFunction | InngestFunctionReference" required>
            A local instance of a function or a reference to a function to invoke.
          </Property>
          <Property name="data" type="object">
            Optional data to pass to the invoked function. Will be required and typed if it can be.
          </Property>
          <Property name="user" type="object">
            Optional user context for the invocation.
          </Property>
          <Property name="timeout" type="string | number | Date" version="v3.14.0+">
            {/* Purposefully not mentioning the default timeout of 1 year, as we expect to lower this very soon. */}
            The amount of time to wait for the invoked function to complete. The time to wait can be specified using a `number` of milliseconds, an `ms`-compatible time string like `"1 hour"`, `"30 mins"`, or `"2.5d"`, or a `Date` object.

            If the timeout is reached, the step will throw an error. See [Error handling](#error-handling) below. Note that the invoked function will continue to run even if this step times out.
          </Property>
        </Properties>
        Throwing errors within the invoked function will be reflected in the invoking function.
      </Property>
    </Properties>
  </Col>
  <Col>
    <CodeGroup title="Invoke a function directly">
    ```ts
    const resultFromDirectCall = await step.invoke("invoke-by-definition", {
      function: anotherFunction,
      data: { ... },
    });
    ```
    </CodeGroup>
    <CodeGroup title="Invoke a function using a function reference">
    ```ts
    const resultFromReference = await step.invoke("invoke-by-reference", {
      function: referenceFunction(...),
      data: { ... },
    });
    ```
    </CodeGroup>
    <CodeGroup title="Invoke a function with a timeout">
    ```ts
    const resultFromDirectCall = await step.invoke("invoke-with-timeout", {
      function: anotherFunction,
      data: { ... },
      timeout: "1h",
    });
    ```
    </CodeGroup>
  </Col>
</Row>

## How to call `step.invoke()`

Handling `step.invoke()` is similar to handling any other Promise in JavaScript:

```ts
// Using the "await" keyword
const result = await step.invoke("invoke-function", {
  function: someInngestFn,
  data: { ... },
});

// Using `then` for chaining
step
  .invoke("invoke-function", { function: someInngestFn, data: { ... } })
  .then((result) => {
    // further processing
  });

// Running multiple invocations in parallel
Promise.all([
  step.invoke("invoke-first-function", {
    function: firstFunctionReference,
    data: { ... },
  }),
  step.invoke("invoke-second-function", {
    function: secondFn,
    data: { ... },
  }),
]);
```

## Using function references

Instead of directly importing a local function to invoke, [`referenceFunction()`](/docs/functions/references) can be used to call an Inngest function located in another app, or to avoid importing the dependencies of a function within the same app.

```ts
import { referenceFunction } from "inngest";
import { type computePi } from "@/inngest/computePi";

// Create a local reference to a function without importing dependencies
const computePi = referenceFunction<typeof computePi>({
  functionId: "compute-pi",
});

// Create a reference to a function in another application
const computeSquare = referenceFunction({
  appId: "my-python-app",
  functionId: "compute-square",
});

// square.result is typed as a number
const square = await step.invoke("compute-square-value", {
  function: computePi,
  data: { number: 4 }, // input data is typed, requiring input if it's needed
});
```

See [Referencing functions](/docs/functions/references) for more information.

## When to use `step.invoke()`

Use of `step.invoke()` to call an Inngest function directly is more akin to traditional RPC than Inngest's usual event-driven flow. While this tool still uses events behind the scenes, you can use it to help break up your codebase into reusable workflows that can be called from anywhere.

## Internal behaviour

When a function object is passed as an argument, internally, the SDK retrieves the function's ID automatically. Alternatively, if a function ID `string` is passed, the Inngest SDK will assert the ID is correct at runtime. See [Error handling](#error-handling) for more information about this point.

When Inngest receives the request to invoke a function, it'll do so and wait for an `inngest/function.finished` event, which it will use to fulfil the data (or error) for the step.

## Return values & serialization

Similar to `step.run()`, all data returned from `step.invoke()` is serialized as JSON. This is done to enable the SDK to return a valid serialized response to the Inngest service.

## Retries

The invoked function will be executed as a regular Inngest function: it will have its own set of retries and can be seen as a brand new run.

If a `step.invoke()` fails for any of the reasons below, it will throw a `NonRetriableError`. This is to combat compounding retries, such that chains of invoked functions can be executed many more times than expected. For example, if A invokes B which invokes C, which invokes D, on failure D would be run 27 times (`retryCount^n`).

This may change on the future - [let us know](https://roadmap.inngest.com/roadmap?ref=docs) if you'd like to change this.

## Error handling

### Function not found

If Inngest could not find a function to invoke using the given ID (see [Internal behaviour](#internal-behaviour) above), an `inngest/function.finished` event will be sent with an appropriate error and the step will fail with a `NonRetriableError`.

### Invoked function fails

If the function exhausts all retries and fails, an `inngest/function.finished`
event will be sent with an appropriate error and the step will fail with a
`NonRetriableError`.

### Invoked function times out

If the `timeout` has been reached and the invoked function is still running, the
step will fail with a `NonRetriableError`.

## Usage limits

See [usage limits][usage-limits] for more details.

[usage-limits]: /docs/usage-limits/inngest#functions
