pages/docs/_docs/110-sending-events/110-create-an-event-key.mdx, before:

---
category: "Sending events"
title: "Creating an Event Key"
slug: "creating-an-event-key"
order: 3
---

“Event Keys” are unique keys that allow you to send or publish events to Inngest. You can use an event key with the Inngest SDK.

```jsx
const client = new Inngest("<Inngest Event Key>")
client.send(...)
```

Event keys are meant to be specific to a given environment (production, test) and a specific source (your API, your mobile app, etc.). You can easily create and manage your event keys from the Inngest Cloud dashboard.

## Creating a new source

From the Inngest Cloud dashboard, you need to create a new “**Source**.”

1. Click on “Sources” ([direct link](https://app.inngest.com/sources))
2. Click on “Add Source” ([direct link](https://app.inngest.com/sources/new))
3. Select “API” then “Create a new source key” ([direct link](https://app.inngest.com/sources/new#API)
4. Copy the newly created key using the “Copy” button:

![A newly created Event Key in the Inngest Cloud dashboard](/assets/docs/creating-an-event-key/new-event-key.png)

🎉 You can now use this event key with the Inngest SDK to send events directly from any codebase. You can also:

- Rename your source using the “Name” field so you and your team can identify it later
- Delete the source when your key is no longer needed
- Filter events by name or IP addresses for increased control and security

## Best practices

1. We recommend creating a unique key per source and per environment (production/test - Tip: use the environment toggle)
2. For client-side sources where the event key may be visible in the browser, we recommend filtering events by name (e.g. `website/page.viewed` or pattern `website/*`) to discourage spam events from being sent to your Inngest Cloud account.

Commit message:

Update event docs with new constructor and UI changes

pages/docs/_docs/110-sending-events/110-create-an-event-key.mdx, after:

---
category: "Sending events"
title: "Creating an Event Key"
slug: "creating-an-event-key"
order: 3
---

“Event Keys” are unique keys that allow applications to send (aka publish) events to Inngest. When using Event Keys with the [Inngest SDK](/docs/events), you can configure the `Inngest` client in 2 ways:

1. Setting the key as an `INNGEST_EVENT_KEY` environment variable in your application
2. Passing the key as an argument

```jsx
// Recommended: Set an INNGEST_EVENT_KEY environment variable for automatic configuration:
const inngest = new Inngest({ name: "Your app name" });

// Or you can pass the eventKey explicitly to the constructor:
const inngest = new Inngest({ name: "Your app name", eventKey: "xyz..." });

// With the Event Key, you're now ready to send data:
inngest.send(...)
```

<aside>
  🙋 Event keys should be unique to a given <strong>environment</strong> (production, test) and a specific <strong>application</strong> (your API, your mobile app, etc.). You can easily create and manage your event keys from the Inngest Cloud dashboard.
</aside>

## Creating a new Event Key

From the Inngest Cloud dashboard, Event Keys are listed in the "Sources" tab:

1. Click on “Sources” ([direct link](https://app.inngest.com/sources))
2. Click the "+ Create an Event Key" button at the top right
3. Update the Event Key's name to something descriptive and click "Save changes"
4. Copy the newly created key using the “Copy” button:

![A newly created Event Key in the Inngest Cloud dashboard](/assets/docs/creating-an-event-key/new-event-key.png)

🎉 You can now use this event key with the Inngest SDK to send events directly from any codebase. You can also:

- Rename your source at any time using the “Name” field so you and your team can identify it later
- Delete the source when your key is no longer needed
- Filter events by name or IP addresses for increased control and security

## Best practices

1. We recommend creating a unique key per source and per environment (production/test - Tip: use the environment "test mode" toggle on the sidebar)
2. For client-side sources where the event key may be visible in the browser, we recommend filtering events by name (e.g. `website/page.viewed` or pattern `website/*`) to discourage spam events from being sent to your Inngest Cloud account.
