pages/docs/guides/batching.mdx, before:

# Batching events <VersionBadge version="v2.2.0+" />

When you have a high load system, it's common to handle a batch of events together rather
than handling each event individually.
It's cost efficient both in terms of computation, and less network roundtrips.

Another common use case for batch handling events is to account for interactions with external system
limitations.
For example, if your event handler calls an API with a rigid rate limit, then batching events could reduce
the number of requests to that API.

## Usage

Now if you're convinced this is a feature you need, here's how you can enable batching event
consumption with Inngest.

```ts {{ title: "record-api-calls.ts"}}
inngest.createFunction(
  { id: "record-api-calls", batchEvents: { maxSize: 100, timeout: "5s" } },
  { event: "log/api.call" },
  // NOTE: Use the `events` argument, which is an array of event payloads
  async ({ events, step }) => {
    const attrs = events.map((evt) => {
      return {
        user_id: evt.data.user_id,
        endpoint: evt.data.endpoint,
        timestamp: toDateTime(evt.ts),
      };
    });

    const result = await step.run("record-data-to-db", async () => {
      return db.bulkWrite(attrs);
    });

    return { success: true, recorded: result.length };
  }
);
```

Imagine we have a job that we use for counting calls made to our API, and we want to track that to
know how many users are utilizing it.

Ignoring the fact there are definitely better databases for recording this kind of data, if we
established a transaction for every single event here, this will put a tremendous amount of stress on
a database, and in certain cases could cause issues like [this](https://blog.sentry.io/transaction-id-wraparound-in-postgres/).

By simply batching the database writes to every 100 events, it will reduce the database load ~100x.

### Configurations

To enable batching, simply set the `batchEvents` object in your function configuration
([reference](/docs/reference/functions/create#inngest-create-function-configuration-trigger-handler-inngest-function)).
It accepts two attributes:

* `maxSize`
* `timeout`

#### maxSize

The number of events in a "full" batch. This is the maximum amount of events your function will receive in a single
batch when it gets invoked.

#### timeout

The duration Inngest will wait before invoking your function even if the batch is not full.
Typical high load systems will have their timeouts set to a couple of seconds, usually not more than 10s.

### How it works

A function that has batching enabled will be invoked if one of the two conditions are met:

* The batch is full
* Timer is up

#### `events` argument

With `batchEvents` set, the SDK will send an `events` array argument to the handler. It contains
the full list of events within a batch, which you can now operate on all of them within a single function.

## Caveats

<Callout>
  Batching is a cloud-only feature and will be added to the dev server soon
</Callout>

With batching, certain event level configurations will be invalidated. When invoking a function, it's pretty
hard to tell if a condition that was valid for an event will still be true when there're now a full list of them.

Here are some features on the event level configuration that won't work with batching:

* rate limit
* [cancellation](/docs/functions/cancellation).

When using batching, we recommend to keep the above in mind, and try to keep it simple if you can.

Commit message:

Remove callout to associate with batching release on Dev server (#677)
* update nix version
* remove callout now that batching is available in dev server
* add notes for concurrency

---------
Co-authored-by: Darwin D Wu <darwin67@users.noreply.github.com>

pages/docs/guides/batching.mdx, after:

# Batching events <VersionBadge version="v2.2.0+" />

When you have a high load system, it's common to handle a batch of events together rather
than handling each event individually.
It's cost efficient both in terms of computation, and less network roundtrips.

Another common use case for batch handling events is to account for interactions with external system
limitations.
For example, if your event handler calls an API with a rigid rate limit, then batching events could reduce
the number of requests to that API.

## Usage

Now if you're convinced this is a feature you need, here's how you can enable batching event
consumption with Inngest.

```ts {{ title: "record-api-calls.ts"}}
inngest.createFunction(
  { id: "record-api-calls", batchEvents: { maxSize: 100, timeout: "5s" } },
  { event: "log/api.call" },
  // NOTE: Use the `events` argument, which is an array of event payloads
  async ({ events, step }) => {
    const attrs = events.map((evt) => {
      return {
        user_id: evt.data.user_id,
        endpoint: evt.data.endpoint,
        timestamp: toDateTime(evt.ts),
      };
    });

    const result = await step.run("record-data-to-db", async () => {
      return db.bulkWrite(attrs);
    });

    return { success: true, recorded: result.length };
  }
);
```

Imagine we have a job that we use for counting calls made to our API, and we want to track that to
know how many users are utilizing it.

Ignoring the fact there are definitely better databases for recording this kind of data, if we
established a transaction for every single event here, this will put a tremendous amount of stress on
a database, and in certain cases could cause issues like [this](https://blog.sentry.io/transaction-id-wraparound-in-postgres/).

By simply batching the database writes to every 100 events, it will reduce the database load ~100x.

### Configurations

To enable batching, simply set the `batchEvents` object in your function configuration
([reference](/docs/reference/functions/create#inngest-create-function-configuration-trigger-handler-inngest-function)).
It accepts two attributes:

* `maxSize`
* `timeout`

#### maxSize

The number of events in a "full" batch. This is the maximum amount of events your function will receive in a single
batch when it gets invoked.

#### timeout

The duration Inngest will wait before invoking your function even if the batch is not full.
Typical high load systems will have their timeouts set to a couple of seconds, usually not more than 10s.

### How it works

A function that has batching enabled will be invoked if one of the two conditions are met:

* The batch is full
* Timer is up

#### `events` argument

With `batchEvents` set, the SDK will send an `events` array argument to the handler. It contains
the full list of events within a batch, which you can now operate on all of them within a single function.

## Caveats

Batching breaks a lot of other primitives, therefore there are features that won't work when combined
with batching. This is true for any type of configuration which is operated on a single event because it's impossible
to tell if a condition that was valid for an event will still be true when there is a list of them.

Here are some features on the event level configuration that won't work with batching:

* [idempotency](/docs/guides/handling-idempotency)
* [rate limit](/docs/reference/functions/rate-limit)
* [cancellation](/docs/functions/cancellation).

When using batching, we recommend to keep the above in mind, and try to keep it simple if you can.


### Note

[Concurrency](/docs/guides/concurrency) will still work with batching, but with the caveat of using only the `limit` option
and not providing any `key`.
If you also provide a `key` for concurrency, it will only apply to the first item of the batch, which will very likely
result in unexpected behaviors.

This could change in the future with batching providing more granular control.
