pages/docs/guides/cancel-running-functions.mdx, before:

export const description = 'Learn how to cancel long running functions with events or our API.'

# Cancel running functions

{/* TODO - Link the sleeps and waits to guides when we move those from references to guides */}
With Inngest, your functions can be running or paused for long periods of time. You may have function with hundreds of steps, or you may be using [`step.sleep`](/docs/reference/functions/step-sleep), [`step.sleepUntil`](/docs/reference/functions/step-sleep-until), or [`step.waitForEvent`](/docs/reference/functions/step-wait-for-event). Sometimes, things happen in your system that make it no longer necessary to complete running the function, which is when cancelling is necessary.

In this guide, you'll learn how to cancel running functions in two ways: {/* TODO - Update when  we add the UI */}

- [Cancel with events](#cancel-with-events) {/*- [Cancel in the Inngest dashboard](#cancel-in-the-inngest-dashboard)*/}
- [Bulk cancel via the REST API](#bulk-cancel-via-the-rest-api)

## Cancel with events

As you have learned that you can trigger functions to run using events, you can also cancel active functions by sending an event.

For our example, we'll take a reminder app where a user can schedule to be reminded of something in the future at whatever time they want. The user can also delete the reminder if they change their mind and don't want to receive the reminder anymore.

Delaying code to run for days or weeks is easy with `step.sleepUntil`, but we need a way to be able to stop the function if the user deletes the reminder while our function is "sleeping."

When defining a function, you can also specify the `cancelOn` option which allows you to list one or more events that, when sent to Inngest, will cause the sleep to be terminated and function will be marked as "Canceled."

Here is our schedule reminders function that leverages `cancelOn`:

```ts {{ title: "inngest/syncContacts.ts" }}
const scheduleReminder = inngest.createFunction(
  {
    id: "schedule-reminder",
    cancelOn: [{
      event: "tasks/reminder.deleted", // The event name that cancels this function
      match: "data.reminderId", // The field that must match in both events received
    }],
  }
  { event: "tasks/reminder.created" },
  async ({ event, step }) => {
    await step.sleepUntil('sleep-until-remind-at-time', event.data.remindAt);
    await step.run('send-reminder-push', async ({}) => {
      await pushNotificationService.push(event.data.userId, event.data.reminderBody)
    })
  }
  // ...
);
```

Let's break down how this works:

1. Whenever the function is triggered, a cancelation listener is created which waits for an `"tasks/reminder.deleted"` event to be received.
2. The `match` statement tells Inngest that both the triggering event (`"tasks/reminder.created"`) and the cancelation event (`"tasks/reminder.deleted"`) have the same exact value for `data.reminderId` in each event payload. This makes sure that an event does not cancel a different reminder.

Here is an example of these two events which will be matched on the `data.reminderId` field:

<Row>
  <Col>

```json
{
  "name": "tasks/reminder.created",
  "data": {
    "userId": "user_123",
    "reminderId": "reminder_0987654321",
    "reminderBody": "Pick up Jane from the airport"
  }
}
```

  </Col>
  <Col>

```json
{
  "name": "tasks/reminder.deleted",
  "data": {
    "userId": "user_123",
    "reminderId": "reminder_0987654321",
  }
}
```

  </Col>
</Row>


### Tips

* You can also optionally specify a `timeout` to only enable cancelation for a period of time.
* You can configure multiple events to cancel a function, up to five.
* You can write a more complex matching statement using the `if` field.

Learn more in the full [reference](/docs/functions/cancellation).


{/* TODO
## Cancel in the Inngest dashboard
*/}

## Bulk cancel via the REST API

You can also cancel functions in bulk via the [REST API](https://api-docs.inngest.com/docs/inngest-api). This is useful if you have a large number of functions within a specific range that you need to cancel.

With the `POST /cancellations` endpoint, you can cancel functions by specifying the `app_id`, `function_id`, and a `started_after` and `started_before` timestamp range. You can also optionally specify an `if` statement to only cancel functions that match a [given expression](/docs/guides/writing-expressions).

<CodeGroup tag="POST" label="api.inngest.com/v1/cancellations">

```bash {{ title: 'cURL' }}
curl -X POST https://api.inngest.com/v1/cancellations \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer signkey-prod-<YOUR-SIGNING-KEY>' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data '{
    "app_id": "acme-app",
    "function_id": "schedule-reminder",
    "started_after": "2024-01-21T18:23:12.000Z",
    "started_before": "2024-01-22T14:22:42.130Z",
    "if": "event.data.userId == 'user_o9235hf84hf'"
  }'
```

</CodeGroup>

When successful, the response will be returned with the cancellation ID and the cancellation job data:

```json {{ title: 'Response' }}
{
  "id": "01HMRMPE5ZQ4AMNJ3S2N79QGRZ",
  "environment_id": "e03843e1-d2df-419e-9b7b-678b03f7398f",
  "function_id": "schedule-reminder",
  "started_after": "2024-01-21T18:23:12.000Z",
  "started_before": "2024-01-22T14:22:42.130Z",
  "if": "event.data.userId == 'user_o9235hf84hf'"
}
```

To learn more, read the full [REST API reference](https://api-docs.inngest.com/docs/inngest-api).

Commit message:

Use `if` in cancel, and document vars available in expressions (#722)
* Use `if` in cancel, and document vars available in expressions

This shows people expressions directly, which is often needed when
cancelling events.

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Sylwia Vargas <45401242+sylwiavargas@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Dan Farrelly <djfarrelly@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Sylwia Vargas <45401242+sylwiavargas@users.noreply.github.com>

pages/docs/guides/cancel-running-functions.mdx, after:

export const description = 'Learn how to cancel long running functions with events or our API.'

# Cancel running functions

{/* TODO - Link the sleeps and waits to guides when we move those from references to guides */}
With Inngest, your functions can be running or paused for long periods of time. You may have function with hundreds of steps, or you may be using [`step.sleep`](/docs/reference/functions/step-sleep), [`step.sleepUntil`](/docs/reference/functions/step-sleep-until), or [`step.waitForEvent`](/docs/reference/functions/step-wait-for-event). Sometimes, things happen in your system that make it no longer necessary to complete running the function, which is when cancelling is necessary.

In this guide, you'll learn how to cancel running functions in two ways: {/* TODO - Update when  we add the UI */}

- [Cancel with events](#cancel-with-events) {/*- [Cancel in the Inngest dashboard](#cancel-in-the-inngest-dashboard)*/}
- [Bulk cancel via the REST API](#bulk-cancel-via-the-rest-api)

## Cancel with events

As you have learned that you can trigger functions to run using events, you can also cancel active functions by sending an event.

For our example, we'll take a reminder app where a user can schedule to be reminded of something in the future at whatever time they want. The user can also delete the reminder if they change their mind and don't want to receive the reminder anymore.

Delaying code to run for days or weeks is easy with `step.sleepUntil`, but we need a way to be able to stop the function if the user deletes the reminder while our function is "sleeping."

When defining a function, you can also specify the `cancelOn` option which allows you to list one or more events that, when sent to Inngest, will cause the sleep to be terminated and function will be marked as "Canceled."

Here is our schedule reminders function that leverages `cancelOn`:

```ts {{ title: "inngest/syncContacts.ts" }}
const scheduleReminder = inngest.createFunction(
  {
    id: "schedule-reminder",
    cancelOn: [{
      event: "tasks/reminder.deleted", // The event name that cancels this function
      // Ensure the cancelation event (async) and the triggering event (event)'s reminderId are the same:
      if: "async.data.reminderId == event.data.reminderId", 
    }],
  }
  { event: "tasks/reminder.created" },
  async ({ event, step }) => {
    await step.sleepUntil('sleep-until-remind-at-time', event.data.remindAt);
    await step.run('send-reminder-push', async ({}) => {
      await pushNotificationService.push(event.data.userId, event.data.reminderBody)
    })
  }
  // ...
);
```

Let's break down how this works:

1. Whenever the function is triggered, a cancelation listener is created which waits for an `"tasks/reminder.deleted"` event to be received.
2. The `if` statement tells Inngest that both the triggering event (`"tasks/reminder.created"`) and the cancelation event (`"tasks/reminder.deleted"`) have the same exact value for `data.reminderId` in each event payload. This makes sure that an event does not cancel a different reminder.

For more information on writing events, read our guide [on writing expressions](/docs/guides/writing-expressions).

Here is an example of these two events which will be matched on the `data.reminderId` field:

<Row>
  <Col>

```json
{
  "name": "tasks/reminder.created",
  "data": {
    "userId": "user_123",
    "reminderId": "reminder_0987654321",
    "reminderBody": "Pick up Jane from the airport"
  }
}
```

  </Col>
  <Col>

```json
{
  "name": "tasks/reminder.deleted",
  "data": {
    "userId": "user_123",
    "reminderId": "reminder_0987654321",
  }
}
```

  </Col>
</Row>


### Tips

* You can also optionally specify a `timeout` to only enable cancelation for a period of time.
* You can configure multiple events to cancel a function, up to five.
* You can write a more complex matching statement using the `if` field.

Learn more in the full [reference](/docs/functions/cancellation).


{/* TODO
## Cancel in the Inngest dashboard
*/}

## Bulk cancel via the REST API

You can also cancel functions in bulk via the [REST API](https://api-docs.inngest.com/docs/inngest-api). This is useful if you have a large number of functions within a specific range that you need to cancel.

With the `POST /cancellations` endpoint, you can cancel functions by specifying the `app_id`, `function_id`, and a `started_after` and `started_before` timestamp range. You can also optionally specify an `if` statement to only cancel functions that match a [given expression](/docs/guides/writing-expressions).

<CodeGroup tag="POST" label="api.inngest.com/v1/cancellations">

```bash {{ title: 'cURL' }}
curl -X POST https://api.inngest.com/v1/cancellations \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer signkey-prod-<YOUR-SIGNING-KEY>' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data '{
    "app_id": "acme-app",
    "function_id": "schedule-reminder",
    "started_after": "2024-01-21T18:23:12.000Z",
    "started_before": "2024-01-22T14:22:42.130Z",
    "if": "event.data.userId == 'user_o9235hf84hf'"
  }'
```

</CodeGroup>

When successful, the response will be returned with the cancellation ID and the cancellation job data:

```json {{ title: 'Response' }}
{
  "id": "01HMRMPE5ZQ4AMNJ3S2N79QGRZ",
  "environment_id": "e03843e1-d2df-419e-9b7b-678b03f7398f",
  "function_id": "schedule-reminder",
  "started_after": "2024-01-21T18:23:12.000Z",
  "started_before": "2024-01-22T14:22:42.130Z",
  "if": "event.data.userId == 'user_o9235hf84hf'"
}
```

To learn more, read the full [REST API reference](https://api-docs.inngest.com/docs/inngest-api).
