pages/docs/guides/enqueueing-future-jobs.mdx, before:

# Enqueueing future jobs

You can enqueue jobs in the future within Inngest easily.  Inngest offers two ways to run jobs in the future:  delaying jobs for a specific amount of time (eg. run in 1 day), or running code at a specific date and time.  There are some benefits to enqueuing jobs using Inngest:

- It works across any provider or platform
- Delaying jobs is durable, and works across server restarts, serverless functions, and redeploys
- You can enqueue jobs into the far future
- Serverless functions are fully supported on all platforms
- Our SDK bypasses serverless function timeouts on all platforms
- You never need to manage queues or backlogs

### Platform support

**This works across all providers and platforms**, whether you run serverless functions or use servers like express.  **It also bypasses serverless function timeouts** on all platforms, so you can sleep for a longer time than your provider supports.

## Delaying jobs

You can delay jobs using the `step.sleep` utility:

```tsx
import { Inngest } from "inngest";

const inngest = new Inngest({ name: "Signup flow" });

export const fn = inngest.createFunction(
  { name: "Send signup email" },
  { event: "user/created" },
  ({ event, step }) => {
    await step.sleep("1 hour");
    await step.run("Do some work in the future", async () => {
      // This runs after 1 hour
    });
  }
);
```

For more information on `step.sleep` read the tool documentation](/docs/functions/multi-step#sleep)


## Running at specific times

You can run jobs at a specific time using the `step.sleepUntil` utility:

```tsx
import { Inngest } from "inngest";

const inngest = new Inngest({ name: "Signup flow" });

export const fn = inngest.createFunction(
  { name: "Send signup email" },
  { event: "user/created" },
  ({ event, step }) => {
    await step.sleepUntil("2023-04-01T12:30:00");

    // You can also sleep until a timestamp within the event data.  This lets you
    // pass in a time for you to run the job:
    await step.sleepUntil(event.data.run_at); // Assuming event.data.run_at is a timestamp.

    await step.run("Do some work in the future", async () => {
      // This runs at the specified time.
    });
  }
);
```

For more information on `step.sleepUntil` [read the tool documentation](/docs/functions/multi-step#sleep-until).

## How it works

In both methods, **the function controls when it runs**.  You control the flow of your code by calling `sleep` or `sleepUntil` within your function directly,
instead of using the queue to manage your code's timing.  This keeps your logic together and makes your code easier to modify.

Inngest *stops the function from running* for whatever time is specified.  When you call `step.sleep` or `step.sleepUntil` the function automatically stops running any future work. The function then tells the Inngest executor that it should be re-invoked at a future time.  We re-call the function at the next step, skipping any previous work.  This is how we bypass serverless function time limits and work across server restarts or redeploys.

Commit message:

Improve internal links w/ new reference docs

pages/docs/guides/enqueueing-future-jobs.mdx, after:

# Enqueueing future jobs

You can easily enqueue jobs in the future with Inngest. Inngest offers two ways to run jobs in the future: delaying jobs for a specific amount of time (eg. run in 1 day), or running code at a specific date and time. There are some benefits to enqueuing jobs using Inngest:

- It works across any provider or platform
- Delaying jobs is durable, and works across server restarts, serverless functions, and redeploys
- You can enqueue jobs into the far future
- Serverless functions are fully supported on all platforms
- Our SDK bypasses serverless function timeouts on all platforms
- You never need to manage queues or backlogs

### Platform support

**This works across all providers and platforms**, whether you run serverless functions or use servers like express.  **It also bypasses serverless function timeouts** on all platforms, so you can sleep for a longer time than your provider supports.

## Delaying jobs

You can delay jobs using the [`step.sleep()`](/docs/reference/functions/step-sleep) utility:

```tsx
import { Inngest } from "inngest";

const inngest = new Inngest({ name: "Signup flow" });

export const fn = inngest.createFunction(
  { name: "Send signup email" },
  { event: "user/created" },
  ({ event, step }) => {
    await step.sleep("1 hour");
    await step.run("Do some work in the future", async () => {
      // This runs after 1 hour
    });
  }
);
```

For more information on `step.sleep()` read [the reference guide](/docs/reference/functions/step-sleep)


## Running at specific times

You can run jobs at a specific time using the [`step.sleepUntil()`](/docs/reference/functions/step-sleep-until) utility:

```tsx
import { Inngest } from "inngest";

const inngest = new Inngest({ name: "Signup flow" });

export const fn = inngest.createFunction(
  { name: "Send signup email" },
  { event: "user/created" },
  ({ event, step }) => {
    await step.sleepUntil("2023-04-01T12:30:00");

    // You can also sleep until a timestamp within the event data.  This lets you
    // pass in a time for you to run the job:
    await step.sleepUntil(event.data.run_at); // Assuming event.data.run_at is a timestamp.

    await step.run("Do some work in the future", async () => {
      // This runs at the specified time.
    });
  }
);
```

For more information on `step.sleepUntil()` [read the reference guide](/docs/reference/functions/step-sleep-until).

## How it works

{/* TODO - Revisit this section after we write a How Inngest Works explainer */}

In both methods, **the function controls when it runs**.  You control the flow of your code by calling `sleep` or `sleepUntil` within your function directly,
instead of using the queue to manage your code's timing.  This keeps your logic together and makes your code easier to modify.

Inngest *stops the function from running* for whatever time is specified.  When you call `step.sleep` or `step.sleepUntil` the function automatically stops running any future work. The function then tells the Inngest executor that it should be re-invoked at a future time.  We re-call the function at the next step, skipping any previous work.  This is how we bypass serverless function time limits and work across server restarts or redeploys.
