pages/docs/reference/typescript/index.mdx, before:

import GithubIcon from "shared/Icons/Github"

# TypeScript SDK

## Installing

<CodeGroup>
```shell {{ title: "npm" }}
npm install inngest
```
```shell {{ title: "pnpm" }}
pnpm add inngest
```
```shell {{ title: "yarn" }}
yarn add inngest
```
</CodeGroup>

## Source code

Our TypeScript SDK is open source and available on Github: [<GithubIcon className="ml-2 inline-flex"/> inngest/inngest-js](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-js).

## Supported Versions

All versions `>=v0.5.0` (released [October 5th 2022](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-js/releases/tag/v0.5.0)) are supported.

If you'd like to upgrade, see the [migration guide](/docs/sdk/migration).

## Examples

### Frameworks

- [Fastify](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-js/tree/main/examples/framework-fastify)
- [Koa](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-js/tree/main/examples/framework-koa)
- [NestJS](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-js/tree/main/examples/framework-nestjs)
- [Next.js (app router)](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-js/tree/main/examples/framework-nextjs-app-router)
- [Next.js (pages router)](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-js/tree/main/examples/framework-nextjs-pages-router)
- [Nuxt](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-js/tree/main/examples/framework-nuxt)
- [Remix](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-js/tree/main/examples/framework-remix)
- [SvelteKit](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-js/tree/main/examples/framework-sveltekit)

### Middleware

- [E2E Encryption](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-js/tree/main/examples/middleware-e2e-encryption)

## Community libraries

Explore our collection of community-created libraries, offering unofficial but valuable extensions and integrations to enhance Inngest's functionality with various frameworks and systems.

Want to be added to the list? [Contact us!](https://app.inngest.com/support)

- [nest-inngest](https://github.com/thawankeane/nest-inngest) - strongly typed Inngest module for NestJS projects
- [nuxt-inngest](https://www.npmjs.com/package/nuxt-inngest) - Inngest integration for Nuxt

Commit message:

Add "Official libraries" section to TypeScript intro

pages/docs/reference/typescript/index.mdx, after:

import GithubIcon from "shared/Icons/Github"

# TypeScript SDK

## Installing

<CodeGroup>
```shell {{ title: "npm" }}
npm install inngest
```
```shell {{ title: "pnpm" }}
pnpm add inngest
```
```shell {{ title: "yarn" }}
yarn add inngest
```
</CodeGroup>

## Source code

Our TypeScript SDK and its related packages are open source and available on Github: [<GithubIcon className="ml-2 inline-flex"/> inngest/inngest-js](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-js).

## Supported Versions

All versions `>=v0.5.0` (released [October 5th 2022](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-js/releases/tag/v0.5.0)) are supported.

If you'd like to upgrade, see the [migration guide](/docs/sdk/migration).

## Official libraries

- [inngest](https://www.npmjs.com/package/inngest) - the Inngest SDK
- [@inngest/eslint-plugin](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@inngest/eslint-plugin) - specific ESLint rules for Inngest
- [@inngest/middleware-encryption](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@inngest/middleware-encryption) - middleware providing E2E encryption

## Examples

### Frameworks

- [Fastify](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-js/tree/main/examples/framework-fastify)
- [Koa](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-js/tree/main/examples/framework-koa)
- [NestJS](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-js/tree/main/examples/framework-nestjs)
- [Next.js (app router)](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-js/tree/main/examples/framework-nextjs-app-router)
- [Next.js (pages router)](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-js/tree/main/examples/framework-nextjs-pages-router)
- [Nuxt](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-js/tree/main/examples/framework-nuxt)
- [Remix](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-js/tree/main/examples/framework-remix)
- [SvelteKit](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-js/tree/main/examples/framework-sveltekit)

### Middleware

- [E2E Encryption](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-js/tree/main/examples/middleware-e2e-encryption)

## Community libraries

Explore our collection of community-created libraries, offering unofficial but valuable extensions and integrations to enhance Inngest's functionality with various frameworks and systems.

Want to be added to the list? [Contact us!](https://app.inngest.com/support)

- [nest-inngest](https://github.com/thawankeane/nest-inngest) - strongly typed Inngest module for NestJS projects
- [nuxt-inngest](https://www.npmjs.com/package/nuxt-inngest) - Inngest integration for Nuxt
