pages/docs/_docs/120-deploying/netlify.mdx, before:

---
category: "Deploying"
title: "Netlify"
slug: "netlify"
---

We provide a Netlify build plugin, [netlify-plugin-inngest](https://www.npmjs.com/package/netlify-plugin-inngest), that allows you to automatically deploy any found functions whenever your site is deployed to Netlify.

<!-- TODO Add Netlify UI instructions once PR is merged at https://github.com/netlify/plugins/pull/843 -->

## Setup

Create or edit a `netlify.toml` file at the root of your project with the following:

```toml
[[plugins]]
package = "netlify-plugin-inngest"
```

Done! 🥳 Whenever your site is deployed, your functions hosted at `/api/inngest` will be registered.

## Configuration

If you want to use a URL that isn't your "primary" Netlify domain, or your functions are served at a different path, provide either `host`, `path`, or both as inputs in the same file:

```toml
[[plugins]]
package = "netlify-plugin-inngest"

  [plugins.inputs]
    host = "https://my-specific-domain.com"
    path = "/api/inngest"
```

Commit message:

Add `npm install` step for "Deploy: Netlify" page

pages/docs/_docs/120-deploying/netlify.mdx, after:

---
category: "Deploying"
title: "Netlify"
slug: "netlify"
---

We provide a Netlify build plugin, [netlify-plugin-inngest](https://www.npmjs.com/package/netlify-plugin-inngest), that allows you to automatically deploy any found functions whenever your site is deployed to Netlify.

<!-- TODO Add Netlify UI instructions once PR is merged at https://github.com/netlify/plugins/pull/843 -->

## Setup

1. Install `netlify-plugin-inngest` as a dev dependency:

```sh
npm install --save-dev netlify-plugin-inngest
# or
yarn add --dev netlify-plugin-inngest
```

2. Create or edit a `netlify.toml` file at the root of your project with the following:

```toml
[[plugins]]
package = "netlify-plugin-inngest"
```

Done! 🥳 Whenever your site is deployed, your functions hosted at `/api/inngest` will be registered.

## Configuration

If you want to use a URL that isn't your "primary" Netlify domain, or your functions are served at a different path, provide either `host`, `path`, or both as inputs in the same file:

```toml
[[plugins]]
package = "netlify-plugin-inngest"

  [plugins.inputs]
    host = "https://my-specific-domain.com"
    path = "/api/inngest"
```
