pages/docs/_docs/getting-started/03-quick-start.mdx, before:

---
category: "Getting started"
title: "Quick start"
slug: "quick-start"
order: 4
---

<div className='tldr'>

  <p><a href="https://app.inngest.com/register" target="_blank">You can sign up for free</a> to get started.  There are two core pieces to Inngest:  <b>events and workflows</b>.  Events represent things that happen.  Workflows are sequences of code you want to run to automate proceses.  Workflows can run automatically after any event, on a schedule, or manually for internal tools</p>

You can send us your own events [via the API](/docs/event-apis-and-integrations), or use integrations to receive events from external tools.

You can build workflows using our UI and clone items from our library.

</div>

Getting started with Inngest is free - you can [sign up for an account immediately](https://app.inngest.com/register), then start aggregating all events in your business immediately.  In this guide, we'll walk through:

1. Creating an account
2. Sending your events to Inngest
3. Creating workflows
4. Making workflows run automatically when events are received

## Getting started in 2 minutes

### 1. Sign up

First, you'll need to [sign up for a free account](https://app.inngest.com/register).  Once you have an account, you can start sending us events.

### 2. Send us events

There are multiple ways of sending us events. You can:

- Send us events from your own systems, eg. when users sign up within your API.  To do this, use our [HTTP API](/docs/event-http-api-and-libraries) or pre-built libraries to send custom events.
- Use integrations to receive events from external systems, eg. from Shopify, AWS, or GitHub.  To do this, browse our [library of pre-built integrations](https://app.inngest.com/integrations) from your account.
- Create webhooks for receiving events via HTTP.  To do this, [follow our webhook guide here](/docs/event-webhooks).

Once you've started sending us events, we will automatically start creating your event library for you.  We'll show you the data that each event supplies, where it originated from, the user that authored the event, and how often the event is received.

You can also start reacting to events in real-time via workflows

### 3. Create a workflow

Workflows allow you to run serverless code.  You can use workflows to react to events in real time, to automate internal processes, or to run things on a schedule.  To learn more about workflows, read our [workflow overview guide](/docs/managing-workflows).

To get set up with your first workflow, sign in to your account, hit workflows, and then browse our library of pre-built workflows as an example.  These show you the power of Inngest.  You can modify any of the workflows in the library at any time, or create your own workflows using pre-built actions or your own code.

### Reach out to us for any help

We're more than happy to help you implement any logic you need.  If you're interested in building out workflows and want to build rapidly, we can help you with assistance for free.  [Schedule a demo with us](https://calendly.com/inngest-thb/30min) and we'll help you out — no strings attached.

Commit message:

Add basic functions doc intro page

pages/docs/_docs/getting-started/03-quick-start.mdx, after:

---
category: "Getting started"
title: "Quick start"
slug: "quick-start"
order: 4
---

<div className='tldr'>

<p>
  <a href="https://inngest.com/sign-up?ref=docs-quick-start" target="_blank">
    You can sign up for free
  </a>{" "}
  to get started. There are two core pieces to Inngest:{" "}
  <b>events and workflows</b>. Events represent things that happen. Workflows
  are sequences of code you want to run to automate proceses. Workflows can run
  automatically after any event, on a schedule, or manually for internal tools
</p>

You can send us your own events via the API with [SDKs](/docs/sending-data-via-inngest-sdks) or [HTTP](/docs/sending-data-via-http), or use integrations to receive events from external tools.

You can build functions via our [CLI](docs/using-the-inngest-cli) or [web IDE](/docs/function-ide-guide).

</div>

Getting started with Inngest is free - you can [sign up for an account immediately](https://app.inngest.com/register), then start aggregating all events in your business immediately. In this guide, we'll walk through:

1. Creating an account
2. Sending your events to Inngest
3. Creating functions
4. Making functions run automatically when events are received

## Getting started in 2 minutes

### 1. Sign up

First, you'll need to [sign up for a free account](https://inngest.com/sign-up?ref=docs-quick-start). Once you have an account, you can start sending us events.

### 2. Send us events

There are multiple ways of sending us events. You can:

- Send us events from your own systems, eg. when users sign up within your API. To do this, use our [HTTP API](/docs/sending-data-via-http) or [pre-built libraries](/docs/sending-data-via-inngest-sdks) to send custom events.
- Use integrations to receive events from external systems, eg. from Shopify, AWS, or GitHub. To do this, browse our [library of pre-built integrations](https://app.inngest.com/sources/new) from your account.
- Create webhooks for receiving events via HTTP. To do this, [follow our webhook guide here](/docs/event-webhooks).

Once you've started sending us events, we will automatically start creating your event library for you. We'll show you the data that each event supplies, where it originated from, the user that authored the event, and how often the event is received.

You can also start reacting to events in real-time via functions

### 3. Create a function

Functions allow you to run serverless code. You can use functions to react to events in real time, to automate internal processes, or to run things on a schedule. To learn more about functions, read our [overview guide](/docs/functions/introduction).

To get started, we recommend reading through one of our guides:

- [Using the CLI in 2 minutes](/docs/using-the-inngest-cli)
- [Getting started with our web IDE](/docs/function-ide-guide)

### Reach out to us for any help

We're more than happy to help you implement any logic you need. If you're interested in building out workflows and want to build rapidly, we can help you with assistance for free. [Schedule a demo with us](https://calendly.com/inngest-thb/30min) and we'll help you out — no strings attached.
