pages/docs/usage-limits/inngest.mdx, before:

import { Tag } from "src/shared/Docs/Tag";

# Usage Limits

We have put some limits on the service to make sure we provide you a good default to start with, while also keeping it a good experience for all other users using Inngest.

Some of these limits are changable, so if the current limits are too low for you, please feel free to reach out and we can change the limits for you.

## Functions

The following applies to `step` usage.

**Timeout**

Each step has a timeout depending on the hosting provider of your choice ([see more info][provider-docs]),
but Inngest supports up to `15 minutes` at the maximum.

**Concurrency** <Tag>Customizable</Tag>

Our hobby plan has a concurrency limit of `1`, and paid plans have a default concurrency limit of `100`.

**Payload Size** <Tag>Customizable</Tag>

The limit for data returned by a step is `4MB`.

**# of Steps per Function**

The maximum number of steps allowed per function is `1000`.

<Callout>
  ⚠️
  This limit is easily reached if you're using `step` on each item in a loop.
  Instead we recommend one or both of the following:
  - Process the loop within a `step` and return that data
  - Utilize the [fan out][fanout-guide] feature to process each item in a separate function
</Callout>

## Events

**Name length**

The maximum length allowed for an event name is `256` characters.

**Request Body Size** <Tag>Customizable</Tag>

The limit for each event request is `512KB`.

**# of Events per request** <Tag>Customizable</Tag>

Maximum number of events you can send in one request is `5000`.
If you're doing fan out, you'll need to be aware of this limitation when you run `step.sendEvent(events)`.

```typescript
// this `events` list will need to be <= 5000
const events = [{name: "<event-name>", data: {}}, ...];

await step.sendEvent(events);
// or
await inngest.send(events);;
```

[provider-docs]: /docs/usage-limits/providers
[fanout-guide]: /docs/guides/fan-out-jobs

Commit message:

Change language and add contact link

pages/docs/usage-limits/inngest.mdx, after:

import { Tag } from "src/shared/Docs/Tag";

# Usage Limits

We have put some limits on the service to make sure we provide you a good default to start with, while also keeping it a good experience for all other users using Inngest.

Some of these limits are customizable, so if you need more than what the current limits provide, please [contact us][contact] and we can change the limits for you.

## Functions

The following applies to `step` usage.

**Timeout**

Each step has a timeout depending on the hosting provider of your choice ([see more info][provider-docs]),
but Inngest supports up to `15 minutes` at the maximum.

**Concurrency** <Tag>Customizable</Tag>

Our hobby plan has a concurrency limit of `1`, and paid plans have a default concurrency limit of `100`.

**Payload Size** <Tag>Customizable</Tag>

The limit for data returned by a step is `4MB`.

**# of Steps per Function**

The maximum number of steps allowed per function is `1000`.

<Callout>
  ⚠️
  This limit is easily reached if you're using `step` on each item in a loop.
  Instead we recommend one or both of the following:
  - Process the loop within a `step` and return that data
  - Utilize the [fan out][fanout-guide] feature to process each item in a separate function
</Callout>

## Events

**Name length**

The maximum length allowed for an event name is `256` characters.

**Request Body Size** <Tag>Customizable</Tag>

The limit for each event request is `512KB`.

**# of Events per request** <Tag>Customizable</Tag>

Maximum number of events you can send in one request is `5000`.
If you're doing fan out, you'll need to be aware of this limitation when you run `step.sendEvent(events)`.

```typescript
// this `events` list will need to be <= 5000
const events = [{name: "<event-name>", data: {}}, ...];

await step.sendEvent(events);
// or
await inngest.send(events);;
```

[provider-docs]: /docs/usage-limits/providers
[fanout-guide]: /docs/guides/fan-out-jobs
[contact]: /contact
