pages/docs/_docs/3-functions/01-introduction.mdx, before:

---
category: "Functions"
title: "Introduction"
slug: "functions/introduction"
order: 1
---

Functions are a core part of Inngest - it's how you run your own code. Functions are run either automatically when events are received, on a schedule, or manually by people on your team. They're the programmable part of the platform that allow you to build automated systems with zero infra.

With Inngest, you can build and deploy your own custom functions in two ways: via
the [Inngest CLI](/docs/using-the-inngest-cli) or via our [web IDE](/docs/function-ide-guide).
We'll walk through the basics of a function on the Inngest platform:

1. The trigger
2. Your code
3. The function response

## The trigger

Every function on Inngest has a trigger. There can be 2 types of triggers:

- **An Event** - The function will be run when a specific event is recieved by Inngest. Each function can have 1 or more event triggers.
- **A Schedule** - The function will be run on a schedule that you declare, in crontab schedule format.

## Your code

You can write your own code in any language you prefer. Inngest supports anything that you can put in a Docker container,
so if you're familiar with writing a Dockerfile, you can run whatever you want on Inngest. Alternatively, you can write
simple Node.js functions right from the Inngest [web IDE](/docs/cloud/function-ide-guide).

We've designed a fantastic workflow with [our cli](/docs/using-the-inngest-cli) that enables you to quickly create, test, and deploy your functions in any language.

## The function response

Your function should always return a response to `stdout`. You can log anything, but we'll only capture and save the last line of output. The output should be formatted as JSON, but can also be a string. The response is important as it will allow you to understand the behavior of your function.

If your funciton has an error, you can throw an error and exit or print your output and return a non-zero exit code. With this, you'll be able to monitor your function's outcome in the Inngest web dashboard.

Commit message:

Add data and retry documentation

pages/docs/_docs/3-functions/01-introduction.mdx, after:

---
category: "Functions"
title: "Introduction"
slug: "functions/introduction"
order: 1
---

Functions are a core part of Inngest - it's how you run your own code. Functions are run either automatically when events are received, on a schedule, or manually by people on your team. They're the programmable part of the platform that allow you to build automated systems with zero infra.

With Inngest, you can build and deploy your own custom functions in two ways: via
the [Inngest CLI](/docs/using-the-inngest-cli) or via our [web IDE](/docs/function-ide-guide).
We'll walk through the basics of a function on the Inngest platform:

1. The trigger
2. Your code
3. The function response

## The trigger

Every function on Inngest has a trigger. There can be 2 types of triggers:

- **An Event** - The function will be run when a specific event is recieved by Inngest. Each function can have 1 or more event triggers.
- **A Schedule** - The function will be run on a schedule that you declare, in crontab schedule format.

## Your code

You can write your own code in any language you prefer. Inngest supports anything that you can put in a Docker container,
so if you're familiar with writing a Dockerfile, you can run whatever you want on Inngest. Alternatively, you can write
simple Node.js functions right from the Inngest [web IDE](/docs/cloud/function-ide-guide).

We've designed a fantastic workflow with [our cli](/docs/using-the-inngest-cli) that enables you to quickly create, test, and deploy your functions in any language.

## The function response

Steps in your function should always return a JSON-encoded response to `stdout`;  we'll capture the last line of output.  As we prefer standards over custom implementations, it's best to return an HTTP-like response:

```
{
  status: 200,
  body: { ... }, // Your data
}
```

This allows us to properly inspect the response, plus the classification of function errors.

Read more about function responses in the function data docs.
