pages/docs/_docs/3-functions/50-step-functions.mdx, before:

---
category: "Functions"
title: "Step functions"
slug: "functions/step-functions"
order: 50
---

Inngest allows you to extend functions with multiple steps.  Each step within a
function is its own individual unit of code.  They can be written in any
language, are retried independently on intermittent external failures, and many
steps can run in parallel.

This documentation introduces high level step-function features, example
step function configuration, and advanced use cases.

## High level features

- Each step is an individual unit of code, written in any language
- Steps are retried independently of each other, on external failures
- Steps can run in parallel
- Each step can access output from prior steps
- Steps can pause functions until specific matching events are received

## Example confifugration

This configuration shows a basic function with two steps running in _sequence_.
The first step runs immediately after the function is triggered.  The second
step runs after the first step has successfully completed.

```json twoslash
{
  "name": "test",
  "id": "improved-chamois-c592a7",
  "triggers": [
    {
      "event": "github/delete",
      "definition": {
        "format": "cue",
        "synced": true,
        "def": "file://./events/github-delete.cue"
      }
    }
  ],
  "steps": {
    "step-1": {
      "id": "step-1",
      "path": "file://./steps/step-1",
      "name": "test",
      "runtime": {
        "type": "docker"
      },
      "after": [{
// @log: This step runs automatically at the start of the function when it's triggered.  When "after" is ommitted, the step automatically runs immediately after starting the function.
        "step": "$trigger"
      }]
    },

// @log: This second step will run after the first step completes, in sequence.  It can read all of the first step's response within the arguments passed to the step.
    "step-2": {
      "id": "step-2",
      "path": "file://./steps/step-2",
      "name": "test",
      "runtime": {
        "type": "docker"
      },
      "after": [{
        "step": "step-1"
      }]
    }
  }
}

```

In this example, the second step can access the event data _and_ the output
from the first step's execution.  If the first step replies with our [suggested
response](/docs/functions/function-input-and-output), the second step will
receive the following:

```
{
  "event": { ... } // Event data
  "steps": {
    "step-1": { ... } // The output of step 1
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Document adding steps to functions

pages/docs/_docs/3-functions/50-step-functions.mdx, after:

---
category: "Functions"
title: "Step functions"
slug: "functions/step-functions"
order: 50
---

Inngest allows you to extend functions with multiple steps.  Each step within a
function is its own individual unit of code.  They can be written in any
language, are retried independently on intermittent external failures, and many
steps can run in parallel.

This documentation introduces high level step-function features, example
step function configuration, and advanced use cases.

## High level features

- Each step is an individual unit of code, written in any language
- Steps are retried independently of each other, on external failures
- Steps can run in parallel
- Each step can access output from prior steps
- Steps can pause functions until specific matching events are received
- Steps can be re-used, shared, and composed between functions, eg. for sending
  emails or SMS messages

## Example confifugration

This configuration shows a basic function with two steps running in _sequence_.
The first step runs immediately after the function is triggered.  The second
step runs after the first step has successfully completed.

```json twoslash
{
  "name": "test",
  "id": "improved-chamois-c592a7",
  "triggers": [
    {
      "event": "github/delete",
      "definition": {
        "format": "cue",
        "synced": true,
        "def": "file://./events/github-delete.cue"
      }
    }
  ],
  "steps": {
    "step-1": {
      "id": "step-1",
      "path": "file://./steps/step-1",
      "name": "test",
      "runtime": {
        "type": "docker"
      },
      "after": [{
// @log: This step runs automatically at the start of the function when it's triggered.  When "after" is ommitted, the step automatically runs immediately after starting the function.
        "step": "$trigger"
      }]
    },

// @log: This second step will run after the first step completes, in sequence.  It can read all of the first step's response within the arguments passed to the step.
    "step-2": {
      "id": "step-2",
      "path": "file://./steps/step-2",
      "name": "test",
      "runtime": {
        "type": "docker"
      },
      "after": [{
        "step": "step-1"
      }]
    }
  }
}

```

In this example, the second step can access the event data _and_ the output
from the first step's execution.  If the first step replies with our [suggested
response](/docs/functions/function-input-and-output), **the second step will
receive the following**:

```
{
  "event": { ... } // Event data
  "steps": {
    "step-1": { ... } // The output of step 1
  }
}
```

## Adding steps to functions

To add a step to a function, create a new JSON block for each step within the
`steps` section of your function's configuration file, with `path` pointing
to the step's code.

Coming soon, you'll be able to use the CLI to automatically scaffold new steps
within your function using our
[library of scaffolds](https://github.com/inngest/scaffolds).
