pages/docs/platform/monitor/inspecting-function-runs.mdx, before:

import { Callout, Row, Col } from "src/shared/Docs/mdx";
import { RiExternalLinkFill } from "@remixicon/react";

# Inspecting a Function run

You identified a failed Function run and want to identify the root cause? Or simply want to dig into a run's timings?
The Function run details will provide all the information to understand how this run ran and the tools to reproduce it locally.

## Accessing Function runs

Functions runs across all application of the currently [selected environment](/docs/platform/environments) are accessible via the "Runs" page in the left side navigation.

![The "Handle failed payments" Function runs list features a run in a failing state.](/assets/docs/platform/monitor/inspecting-function-runs/function-runs.png)

_Runs can be filtered using a Status, Queued or Started at and Application filters._

Accessing the runs of a specific Function is achieved via the "Functions" menu, as described in the following section.

## The Function run details

A _Handle failed payments_ function failed after retrying 5 times:


![The "Handle failed payments" Function runs list features a run in a failing state.](/assets/docs/platform/monitor/inspecting-function-runs/handle-failed-payments-function-run-failed.png)

Clicking on the failed Function Runs expands the run detail view:

![The Function run details view displays the event payload on the left, some technical attributes (function version, timings) on the right and a timeline of steps on the bottom left.](/assets/docs/platform/monitor/inspecting-function-runs/function-run-logs.png)

The Function run details panel is divided in 3 parts:

- On the top right: the **Trigger details** helpful when exchanging with Support
- On the right: the **Event payload** that triggered the Function run
- On the bottom right: the **Run details** with its timeline, a clear with of the Function's steps execution


The Function run details informs us that our Function run failed because of an `Error: Failed to downgrade user` error.

This is a first clue, let's have a closer look at the Timeline to identify the root cause:

<Row>

<Col>

<br/>

We can now spot that the `downgrade-account-billing-plan` failed.

Let's expand this step to look at the retries and errors.
</Col>
<Col>
![The Timelime of steps features two steps: a first one to fetch the subscription from Stripe and second one to update it. The second is marked as failed.](/assets/docs/platform/monitor/inspecting-function-runs/function-run-logs-timeline-1.png)
</Col>

</Row>

<Row>

<Col>

![Expanding the second step lists all the attempted retries along with their respective error.](/assets/docs/platform/monitor/inspecting-function-runs/function-run-logs-timeline-2.png)

</Col>
<Col>

<br/>
<br/>

Expanding a step provides the same level of details (the error message and timings) along with retries information.

It seems that our `downgrade-account-billing-plan` step raised the same error during the following 5 retries, we might have to perform a fix in the database.


</Col>

</Row>


<Callout>

💡 **Tips**

<div className="flex flex-row items-center">
<div>Clicking on the</div>
<RiExternalLinkFill className="fill-breeze-500 mx-2 h-4 w-4"/>
<div> icon next to "Run details" open it in a new tab with a full-page layout.</div>
</div>


![Clicking on the icon next to "Run details" open it in a new tab with a full-page layout](/assets/docs/platform/monitor/inspecting-function-runs/function-runs-details-open-new-tab.png)

It is useful for Function having a lot of steps or retries!


</Callout>


## Performing actions from the Function run details

The Function run details provides two main actions: replay the Function Run or sending the trigger event to your local Inngest Dev Server.

Sending the trigger Event to your local Inngest Dev Server provides a quick way to reproduce issues that are not linked to external factors (ex: new function version recently deployed, data issues).

After looking at the Function run details, the failure is judged temporary or fixed by a recent deployment, you can replay the Function run by using the "Rerun" button at the top right of the screen.

![The rerun button is accessible in the header of the "run details" section of the Function run detail](/assets/docs/platform/monitor/inspecting-function-runs/function-runs-details-open-new-tab.png)

Commit message:

Add run search docs (#967)
* Add docs

* Copy tweaks

pages/docs/platform/monitor/inspecting-function-runs.mdx, after:

import { Callout, Row, Col } from "src/shared/Docs/mdx";
import { RiExternalLinkFill } from "@remixicon/react";

# Inspecting a Function run

You identified a failed Function run and want to identify the root cause? Or simply want to dig into a run's timings?
The Function run details will provide all the information to understand how this run ran and the tools to reproduce it locally.

## Accessing Function runs

Functions runs across all application of the currently [selected environment](/docs/platform/environments) are accessible via the "Runs" page in the left side navigation.

![The "Handle failed payments" Function runs list features a run in a failing state.](/assets/docs/platform/monitor/inspecting-function-runs/function-runs.png)

_Runs can be filtered using a Status, Queued or Started at and Application filters._

Accessing the runs of a specific Function is achieved via the "Functions" menu, as described in [the function run details section](http://localhost:3002/docs/platform/monitor/inspecting-function-runs#the-function-run-details).

## Searching Function runs
Advanced filters are available using a [CEL expression](https://www.inngest.com/docs/guides/writing-expressions). The search feature is available by clicking on the "Show search" button next to the other run filters.

![The runs list features an advance search feature that filters results using a CEL query.](/assets/docs/platform/monitor/inspecting-function-runs/function-runs-search.png)
### Searchable properties
Only basic search operators and `event` and `output` variables are available for now:

|Field name|Type|Operators|
|-----------|-----------|-----------|
event.id| `string`| `==`, `!=`
event.name| `string`| `==`, `!=`
event.ts| `int64`| `==`, `!=`, `>`, `>=`, `<`, `<=`
event.v| `string`| `==`, `!=`
event.data| `map[string]any`| `==`, `!=`, `>`, `>=`, `<`, `<=`
output| `any`| `==`, `!=`, `>`, `>=`, `<`, `<=`

A few examples of valid search queries are `event.data.hello == "world"` and `output.success != true`. [Learn more about how expressions are used in Inngest.](https://www.inngest.com/docs/guides/writing-expressions)

## The Function run details
A _Handle failed payments_ function failed after retrying 5 times:


![The "Handle failed payments" Function runs list features a run in a failing state.](/assets/docs/platform/monitor/inspecting-function-runs/handle-failed-payments-function-run-failed.png)

Clicking on the failed Function Runs expands the run detail view:

![The Function run details view displays the event payload on the left, some technical attributes (function version, timings) on the right and a timeline of steps on the bottom left.](/assets/docs/platform/monitor/inspecting-function-runs/function-run-logs.png)

The Function run details panel is divided in 3 parts:

- On the top right: the **Trigger details** helpful when exchanging with Support
- On the right: the **Event payload** that triggered the Function run
- On the bottom right: the **Run details** with its timeline, a clear with of the Function's steps execution


The Function run details informs us that our Function run failed because of an `Error: Failed to downgrade user` error.

This is a first clue, let's have a closer look at the Timeline to identify the root cause:

<Row>

<Col>

<br/>

We can now spot that the `downgrade-account-billing-plan` failed.

Let's expand this step to look at the retries and errors.
</Col>
<Col>
![The Timelime of steps features two steps: a first one to fetch the subscription from Stripe and second one to update it. The second is marked as failed.](/assets/docs/platform/monitor/inspecting-function-runs/function-run-logs-timeline-1.png)
</Col>

</Row>

<Row>

<Col>

![Expanding the second step lists all the attempted retries along with their respective error.](/assets/docs/platform/monitor/inspecting-function-runs/function-run-logs-timeline-2.png)

</Col>
<Col>

<br/>
<br/>

Expanding a step provides the same level of details (the error message and timings) along with retries information.

It seems that our `downgrade-account-billing-plan` step raised the same error during the following 5 retries, we might have to perform a fix in the database.


</Col>

</Row>


<Callout>

💡 **Tips**

<div className="flex flex-row items-center">
<div>Clicking on the</div>
<RiExternalLinkFill className="fill-breeze-500 mx-2 h-4 w-4"/>
<div> icon next to "Run details" open it in a new tab with a full-page layout.</div>
</div>


![Clicking on the icon next to "Run details" open it in a new tab with a full-page layout](/assets/docs/platform/monitor/inspecting-function-runs/function-runs-details-open-new-tab.png)

It is useful for Function having a lot of steps or retries!


</Callout>


## Performing actions from the Function run details

The Function run details provides two main actions: replay the Function Run or sending the trigger event to your local Inngest Dev Server.

Sending the trigger Event to your local Inngest Dev Server provides a quick way to reproduce issues that are not linked to external factors (ex: new function version recently deployed, data issues).

After looking at the Function run details, the failure is judged temporary or fixed by a recent deployment, you can replay the Function run by using the "Rerun" button at the top right of the screen.

![The rerun button is accessible in the header of the "run details" section of the Function run detail](/assets/docs/platform/monitor/inspecting-function-runs/function-runs-details-open-new-tab.png)
