pages/docs/deploy/vercel.mdx, before:

# Vercel

Inngest enables you to host your functions on Vercel using their [serverless functions platform](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/functions/serverless-functions). This allows you to deploy your Inngest functions right alongside your existing website and API functions running on Vercel.

Inngest will call your functions securely via HTTP request on-demand, whether triggered by an event or on a schedule in the case of cron jobs.

## Hosting Inngest functions on Vercel

After you've written your functions using [Next.js](/docs/sdk/serve?ref=docs-deploy-vercel#framework-next-js) or Vercel's [Express-like](/docs/sdk/serve?ref=docs-deploy-vercel#framework-express) functions within your project, you need to serve them via the `serve` handler. Using the `serve` handler, create a Vercel/Next.js function at the `/api/inngest` endpoint. Here's an example in a Next.js app:

## Choose the Next.js App Router or Pages Router:

<GuideSelector
  options={[
    { key: "nextappdir", title: "Next.js - App Router" },
    { key: "nextpages", title: "Next.js - Pages Router" }
  ]}
>

<GuideSection show="nextpages">
```ts
import { serve } from "inngest/next";
import { client } from "../../inngest/client";
import { firstFunction, anotherFunction } from "../../inngest/functions";

export default serve({
  client: client,
  functions: [
    firstFunction,
    anotherFunction
  ]
});
```
</GuideSection>

<GuideSection show="nextappdir">
```ts
import { serve } from "inngest/next";
import { client } from "../../inngest/client";
import { firstFunction, anotherFunction } from "../../inngest/functions";

export const { GET, POST, PUT } = serve({
  client: client,
  functions: [
    firstFunction,
    anotherFunction
  ]
});
```
</GuideSection>

</GuideSelector>

## Deploying to Vercel

Installing [Inngest's official Vercel integration](https://vercel.com/integrations/inngest) does 3 things:

1. Automatically sets the required [`INNGEST_SIGNING_KEY`](/docs/sdk/environment-variables#inngest-signing-key) environment variable to securely communicate with Inngest's API
2. Automatically sets the [`INNGEST_EVENT_KEY`](/docs/sdk/environment-variables#inngest-event-key) environment variable to enable your application to send events ([docs](/docs/events/creating-an-event-key))
3. Automatically deploys new functions to Inngest every time you deploy updated code to Vercel - no need to change your existing workflow!

<ButtonDeploy href="https://vercel.com/integrations/inngest" type="vercel" label="Install the Inngest Vercel integration" />

To enable communication between Inngest and your app, you need to either [disable Deployment Protection](https://vercel.com/docs/security/deployment-protection#configuring-deployment-protection)
or, if you're on Vercel's Pro plan, configure protection bypass:

## Bypassing Deployment Protection

If you have Vercel’s [Deployment Protection feature](https://vercel.com/docs/security/deployment-protection) enabled, _by default_, Inngest will not be able to send HTTP requests to your application's preview environments. To enable this, you will need to leverage Vercel's "[Protection Bypass for Automation](https://vercel.com/docs/security/deployment-protection#protection-bypass-for-automation)" feature. Access to this feature may be dependent on the Vercel plan that you're paying for (please see docs linked above). Here's how to set it up:

1. Enable "Protection Bypass for Automation" on your Vercel project
2. Copy your secret
3. Goto [the Vercel integration settings page in the Inngest dashboard](https://app.inngest.com/settings/integrations/vercel)
4. For each project that you would like to enable this for, append the secret as a query string parameter to your Inngest serve route. e.g. `/api/inngest?x-vercel-protection-bypass=XYZ...` (see below). Inngest will now use this parameter to communicate with your application to bypass the deployment protection.
5. Trigger a re-deploy of your preview environment(s) (this re-deploys the functions to Inngest)

<img
  src="/assets/docs/deploy/vercel-protection-bypass.png"
  width="400"
  height={400/726*248}
  quality="95"
  className="max-w-[400px]"
  alt="A Vercel protection bypass secret appended as a query string in the Inngest dashboard"
/>

<Callout variant="warning">
  <span className="text-yellow-300">⚠️</span> Warning - This URL is stored in the Inngest database as a plaintext value, so the bypass protection secret is not encrypted at rest in our database. In the future, we plan to store this value in a separate encrypted location.
</Callout>

---

### Manually registering functions

While we strongly recommend our Vercel integration, you can still use Inngest by manually telling Inngest that you've deployed updated functions. You can register your app [via the Inngest UI](/docs/deploy#registering-via-the-ui) or [via our API with a curl request](/docs/deploy#registering-via-the-api).

Commit message:

Add more context about deployment protection with new changes to UI

pages/docs/deploy/vercel.mdx, after:

# Vercel

Inngest enables you to host your functions on Vercel using their [serverless functions platform](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/functions/serverless-functions). This allows you to deploy your Inngest functions right alongside your existing website and API functions running on Vercel.

Inngest will call your functions securely via HTTP request on-demand, whether triggered by an event or on a schedule in the case of cron jobs.

## Hosting Inngest functions on Vercel

After you've written your functions using [Next.js](/docs/sdk/serve?ref=docs-deploy-vercel#framework-next-js) or Vercel's [Express-like](/docs/sdk/serve?ref=docs-deploy-vercel#framework-express) functions within your project, you need to serve them via the `serve` handler. Using the `serve` handler, create a Vercel/Next.js function at the `/api/inngest` endpoint. Here's an example in a Next.js app:

## Choose the Next.js App Router or Pages Router:

<GuideSelector
  options={[
    { key: "nextappdir", title: "Next.js - App Router" },
    { key: "nextpages", title: "Next.js - Pages Router" }
  ]}
>

<GuideSection show="nextpages">
```ts
import { serve } from "inngest/next";
import { client } from "../../inngest/client";
import { firstFunction, anotherFunction } from "../../inngest/functions";

export default serve({
  client: client,
  functions: [
    firstFunction,
    anotherFunction
  ]
});
```
</GuideSection>

<GuideSection show="nextappdir">
```ts
import { serve } from "inngest/next";
import { client } from "../../inngest/client";
import { firstFunction, anotherFunction } from "../../inngest/functions";

export const { GET, POST, PUT } = serve({
  client: client,
  functions: [
    firstFunction,
    anotherFunction
  ]
});
```
</GuideSection>

</GuideSelector>

## Deploying to Vercel

Installing [Inngest's official Vercel integration](https://vercel.com/integrations/inngest) does 3 things:

1. Automatically sets the required [`INNGEST_SIGNING_KEY`](/docs/sdk/environment-variables#inngest-signing-key) environment variable to securely communicate with Inngest's API
2. Automatically sets the [`INNGEST_EVENT_KEY`](/docs/sdk/environment-variables#inngest-event-key) environment variable to enable your application to send events ([docs](/docs/events/creating-an-event-key))
3. Automatically deploys new functions to Inngest every time you deploy updated code to Vercel - no need to change your existing workflow!

<ButtonDeploy href="https://vercel.com/integrations/inngest" type="vercel" label="Install the Inngest Vercel integration" />

To enable communication between Inngest and your app, you need to either [disable Deployment Protection](https://vercel.com/docs/security/deployment-protection#configuring-deployment-protection)
or, if you're on Vercel's Pro plan, configure protection bypass:

## Bypassing Deployment Protection

If you have Vercel's [Deployment Protection feature](https://vercel.com/docs/security/deployment-protection) enabled, _by default_, Inngest may not be able to communicate with your application. This may depend on what configuration you have set:

* **"Standard protection"** or **"All deployments"** - This affects Inngest production and [branch environments](/docs/platform/environments).
* **"Only preview deployments"** - This affects [branch environments](/docs/platform/environments).

To work around this, you can either:

1. Disable deployment protection
2. Configure protection bypass (_Protection bypass may or may not be available depending on your pricing plan_)

### Configure protection bypass

To enable this, you will need to leverage Vercel's "[Protection Bypass for Automation](https://vercel.com/docs/security/deployment-protection#protection-bypass-for-automation)" feature. Access to this feature may be dependent on the Vercel plan that you're paying for (please see docs linked above). Here's how to set it up:

1. Enable "Protection Bypass for Automation" on your Vercel project
2. Copy your secret
3. Goto [the Vercel integration settings page in the Inngest dashboard](https://app.inngest.com/settings/integrations/vercel)
4. For each project that you would like to enable this for, append the secret as a query string parameter to your Inngest serve route. e.g. `/api/inngest?x-vercel-protection-bypass=XYZ...` (see below). Inngest will now use this parameter to communicate with your application to bypass the deployment protection.
5. Trigger a re-deploy of your preview environment(s) (this re-deploys the functions to Inngest)

<img
  src="/assets/docs/deploy/vercel-protection-bypass.png"
  width="400"
  height={400/726*248}
  quality="95"
  className="max-w-[400px]"
  alt="A Vercel protection bypass secret appended as a query string in the Inngest dashboard"
/>

<Callout variant="warning">
  <span className="text-yellow-300">⚠️</span> Warning - This URL is stored in the Inngest database as a plaintext value, so the bypass protection secret is not encrypted at rest in our database. In the future, we plan to store this value in a separate encrypted location.
</Callout>

---

### Manually registering functions

While we strongly recommend our Vercel integration, you can still use Inngest by manually telling Inngest that you've deployed updated functions. You can register your app [via the Inngest UI](/docs/deploy#registering-via-the-ui) or [via our API with a curl request](/docs/deploy#registering-via-the-api).
