pages/docs/_docs/0-what-is-inngest/02-high-level-architecture.mdx, before:

---
category: "What is Inngest?"
title: "High-level Architecture"
slug: "high-level-architecture"
image: /assets/docs/os-arch.png
position: 1
---

At a high level, Inngest comprises 6 core services:

- A **Source API** receives events from clients through a simple POST request, pushing them to the message queue.
- The **Message Queue** acts as an event stream between the API and the Runner, buffering incoming messages to ensure QoS before passing messages to be executed.
- A **Runner** coordinates the execution of functions and a specific run’s State. When a new function execution is required, this schedules running the function’s steps from the trigger via the executor. Upon each step’s completion, this schedules execution of subsequent steps via iterating through the function’s Edges.
- The **Executor** manages executing the individual steps of a function, via drivers for each step’s runtime. It loads the specific code to execute via an Action Loader. It also interfaces over the State store to save action data as each finishes or fails.
  - Within the executor, **drivers** run the specific action code for a step based off of the runtime, eg. within Docker or WASM
- **State** stores data about events and given function runs, including the outputs and errors of individual actions, and what’s enqueued for the future.  It's also responsible for fetching the function DAG (described as workflows).
- The **Action Loader** loads and returns action definitions for use by the Executor. The source can be from disk, memory, or another persisted state.

Note:  There are more components to the hosted version of Inngest, such as a versioned workflow manager with bitemporality.  We'll be incorporating these into the open-source platform.

## Data flow & sequence

1. Your services, or 3rd party webhooks, send events to the Source API.
2. The Source API validates and optionally transforms (via WASM-based inline JS) these events, then publishes the events to an internal message queue.
3. A runner consumes the event from the message queue, checking to see which live functions are triggered by the specific event.
4. The runner coordinates with the state store to initialize new executions (runs) of each triggered function, via an internal queue.
5. Shared-nothing workers consume from the queue to execute steps of each function.  Once complete, the state for the function run is updated and the step's children are scheduled.

**Core implementation details**:

- The message queue can be any message broker, such as NATS, NSQ, Pub/Sub, Kafka, etc.  We abstract over the broker to provide buffering.
- Functions can be conditionally triggered based off of event data via expressions evaluated with [CEL](https://github.com/google/cel-go)
- The queue can be any implementation.  We use an internal implementation, and we're open-sourcing implementations for Redis, Postgres, and currently existing systems such as Celery.  The backing implementation doesn't necessarily matter, as we're abstracting the queue via state independently.
- Drivers for tasks can be _asynchronous_.  Some functions may take minutes to run, and we must support long running jobs with unreliable systems.  This is noted within the driver's immediate response, and each driver maintains its own state (eg. a Kuberenetes or Nomad cluster) for which steps are running.  Step responses are recorded via another message queue.

Inngest is offered as a cloud, with an [open-source local implementation for development](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-cli).  We're also implementing a fully self-hostable version of the cloud, with multiple backing state stores (eg. Redis and Postgres).

Commit message:

Add error & remove "internal implementation"

pages/docs/_docs/0-what-is-inngest/02-high-level-architecture.mdx, after:

---
category: "What is Inngest?"
title: "High-level Architecture"
slug: "high-level-architecture"
image: /assets/docs/os-arch.png
position: 1
---

At a high level, Inngest comprises 6 core services:

- A **Source API** receives events from clients through a simple POST request, pushing them to the message queue.
- The **Message Queue** acts as an event stream between the API and the Runner, buffering incoming messages to ensure QoS before passing messages to be executed.
- A **Runner** coordinates the execution of functions and a specific run’s State. When a new function execution is required, this schedules running the function’s steps from the trigger via the executor. Upon each step’s completion, this schedules execution of subsequent steps via iterating through the function’s Edges.
- The **Executor** manages executing the individual steps of a function, via drivers for each step’s runtime. It loads the specific code to execute via an Action Loader. It also interfaces over the State store to save action data as each finishes or fails.
  - Within the executor, **drivers** run the specific action code for a step based off of the runtime, eg. within Docker or WASM
- **State** stores data about events and given function runs, including the outputs and errors of individual actions, and what’s enqueued for the future.  It's also responsible for fetching the function DAG (described as workflows).
- The **Action Loader** loads and returns action definitions for use by the Executor. The source can be from disk, memory, or another persisted state.

Note:  There are more components to the hosted version of Inngest, such as a versioned workflow manager with bitemporality.  We'll be incorporating these into the open-source platform.

## Data flow & sequence

1. Your services, or 3rd party webhooks, send events to the Source API.
2. The Source API validates and optionally transforms (via WASM-based inline JS) these events, then publishes the events to an internal message queue.
3. A runner consumes the event from the message queue, checking to see which live functions are triggered by the specific event.
4. The runner coordinates with the state store to initialize new executions (runs) of each triggered function, via an internal queue.
5. Shared-nothing workers consume from the queue to execute steps of each function.  Once complete, the state for the function run is updated and the step's children are scheduled.
6. If a step errors, the runner is responsible for re-scheduling the steps.

**Core implementation details**:

- The message queue can be any message broker, such as NATS, NSQ, Pub/Sub, Kafka, etc.  We abstract over the broker to provide buffering.
- Functions can be conditionally triggered based off of event data via expressions evaluated with [CEL](https://github.com/google/cel-go)
- The queue can be any implementation.  We're open-sourcing implementations for Redis, Postgres, and currently existing systems such as Celery.  The backing implementation doesn't necessarily matter, as Inngest abstracts the queue via state independently.
- Drivers for tasks can be _asynchronous_.  Some functions may take minutes to run, and we must support long running jobs with unreliable systems.  This is noted within the driver's immediate response, and each driver maintains its own state (eg. a Kuberenetes or Nomad cluster) for which steps are running.  Step responses are recorded via another message queue.

Inngest is offered as a cloud, with an [open-source local implementation for development](https://github.com/inngest/inngest-cli).  We're also implementing a fully self-hostable version of the cloud, with multiple backing state stores (eg. Redis and Postgres).
