pages/docs/sdk/serve.mdx, before:

# Serving the Inngest API

Inngest works by serving an HTTP API endpoint which exposes your functions for us to call on-demand.
The first thing you'll need to do is to add and serve the Inngest API in your project.

## Setting up the API

Inngest provides a `serve()` handler which adds an API endpoint to your router.  **You should always
serve our API at `/api/inngest`**, as this makes automated deploys much easier.  If you need to
change the API URL skip to [configuring the API Path](/docs/reference/serve#serve-client-functions-options).

<CodeGroup>
```ts {{ title: "v3" }}
// All serve handlers have the same arguments:
serve({
  client: inngest, // a client created with new Inngest()
  functions: [fnA, fnB], // an array of Inngest functions to serve, created with inngest.createFunction()
  /* Optional extra configuration */
});
```
```ts {{ title: "v2" }}
// All serve handlers have the same arguments:
serve(
  inngest, // a client created with new Inngest()
  [fnA, fnB], // an array of Inngest functions to serve, created with inngest.createFunction()
  {/* Optional extra configuration */}
);
```
</CodeGroup>

We provide framework-specific bindings to make this easy for common platforms:

- [AWS Lambda](#framework-aws-lambda)
- [Cloudflare](#framework-cloudflare)
- [DigitalOcean functions](#framework-digital-ocean-functions)
- [Express](#framework-express)
- [Fastify](#framework-fastify)
- [Fresh (Deno)](#framework-fresh-deno)
- [Google Cloud Functions](#framework-google-cloud-functions)
- [H3](#framework-h3)
- [Next.js](#framework-next-js)
- [Redwood](#framework-redwood)
- [Remix](#framework-remix)
- [Custom](#custom-frameworks)

Each of these bindings wrap our base API which implemnts the core logic, so adding support for new
frameworks is easy.  [Want us to add support for another platform?  Come say hi in our discord](/discord)
or [drop us a note](/contact).

## Signing key

You'll need to assign your signing key to an [`INNGEST_SIGNING_KEY`](/docs/sdk/environment-variables#inngest-signing-key) environment variable in your hosting
provider or `.env` file locally.  This lets the SDK securely communicate with Inngest.  If you can't
provide this as a signing key, you can pass it in to `serve` when setting up your framework.  [Read
the reference for more information](/docs/sdk/reference/serve#reference).

## Framework: AWS Lambda <VersionBadge version="v1.5.0+" />

We recommend using [Lambda function URLs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/lambda-urls.html) to trigger your functions, as these require no other configuration or cost.

Alternatively, you can use an API Gateway to route requests to your Lambda. The handler supports [API Gateway V1](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/http-api-develop-integrations-lambda.html) and [API Gateway V2](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/http-api-develop-integrations-lambda.html). If you are running API Gateway behind a proxy or have some other configuration, you may have to specify the `serveHost` and `servePath` options when calling `serve()` to ensure Inngest knows the URL where you are serving your functions. See [Configuring the API path](/docs/reference/serve#serve-client-functions-options) for more details.

<CodeGroup>
```ts {{ title: "v3" }}
import { serve } from "inngest/lambda";
import { inngest } from "./client";
import fnA from "./fnA"; // Your own function

export const handler = serve({
  client: inngest,
  functions: [fnA],
});
```
```ts {{ title: "v2" }}
import { serve } from "inngest/lambda";
import { inngest } from "./client";
import fnA from "./fnA"; // Your own function

export const handler = serve(inngest, [fnA]);
```
</CodeGroup>

## Framework: Cloudflare

You can import the Inngest API server when using <a href="https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/platform/functions/" target="_blank" rel="nofollow">Cloudflare pages functions</a> or workers within `/functions/api/inngest.js`:

<CodeGroup>
```ts {{ title: "v3" }}
import { serve } from "inngest/cloudflare";
import { inngest } from "../../inngest/client";
import fnA from "../../inngest/fnA"; // Your own function

export const onRequest = serve({
  client: inngest,
  functions: [fnA],
});
```
```ts {{ title: "v2" }}
import { serve } from "inngest/cloudflare";
import { inngest } from "../../inngest/client";
import fnA from "../../inngest/fnA"; // Your own function

export const onRequest = serve(inngest, [fnA]);
```
</CodeGroup>

## Framework: DigitalOcean Functions

The DigitalOcean serve function allows you to deploy Inngest to DigitalOcean serverless functions.
Because DigitalOcean doesn't provide the request URL in its function arguments, you **must** include
the function URL and path when configuring your handler:

<CodeGroup>
```ts {{ title: "v3" }}
import { serve } from "inngest/digitalocean";
import { inngest } from "./src/inngest/client";
import fnA from "./src/inngest/fnA"; // Your own function

const main = serve({
  client: inngest,
  functions: [fnA],
  // Your digitalocean hostname.  This is required otherwise your functions won't work.
  serveHost: "https://faas-sfo3-your-url.doserverless.co",
  // And your DO path, also required.
  servePath: "/api/v1/web/fn-your-uuid/inngest",
});

// IMPORTANT: Makes the function available as a module in the project.
// This is required for any functions that require external dependencies.
module.exports.main = main;
```
```ts {{ title: "v2" }}
import { serve } from "inngest/digitalocean";
import { inngest } from "./src/inngest/client";
import fnA from "./src/inngest/fnA"; // Your own function

const main = serve(inngest, [fnA], {
  // Your digitalocean hostname.  This is required otherwise your functions won't work.
  serveHost: "https://faas-sfo3-your-url.doserverless.co",
  // And your DO path, also required.
  servePath: "/api/v1/web/fn-your-uuid/inngest",
});

// IMPORTANT: Makes the function available as a module in the project.
// This is required for any functions that require external dependencies.
module.exports.main = main;
```
</CodeGroup>

## Framework: Express

You can serve Inngest functions within your existing Express app, deployed to any hosting provider
like render, fly, AWS, K8S, etc:

<CodeGroup>
```ts {{ title: "v3" }}
import { serve } from "inngest/express";
import { inngest } from "./src/inngest/client";
import fnA from "./src/inngest/fnA"; // Your own function

// Important:  ensure you add JSON middleware to process incoming JSON POST payloads.
app.use(express.json());
app.use(
  // Expose the middleware on our recommended path at `/api/inngest`.
  "/api/inngest",
  serve({ client: inngest, functions: [fnA] })
);
```
```ts {{ title: "v2" }}
import { serve } from "inngest/express";
import { inngest } from "./src/inngest/client";
import fnA from "./src/inngest/fnA"; // Your own function

// Important:  ensure you add JSON middleware to process incoming JSON POST payloads.
app.use(express.json());
app.use(
  // Expose the middleware on our recommended path at `/api/inngest`.
  "/api/inngest",
  serve(inngest, [fnA])
);
```
</CodeGroup>

You must ensure you're using the `express.json()` middleware otherwise your functions won't be
executed.

## Framework: Fastify <VersionBadge version="v2.6.0+" />

You can serve Inngest functions within your existing Fastify app.

We recommend using the exported `inngestFastify` plugin, though we also expose a generic `serve()` function if you'd like to manually create a route.

<CodeGroup>
```ts {{ title: "Plugin" }}
import Fastify from "fastify";
import inngestFastify from "inngest/fastify";
import { inngest, fnA } from "./inngest";

const fastify = Fastify();

fastify.register(inngestFastify, {
  client: inngest,
  functions: [fnA],
  options: {},
});

fastify.listen({ port: 3000 }, function (err, address) {
  if (err) {
    fastify.log.error(err);
    process.exit(1);
  }
});
```
```ts {{ title: "Custom route (v3)" }}
import Fastify from "fastify";
import { serve } from "inngest/fastify";
import { fnA, inngest } from "./inngest";

const fastify = Fastify();

fastify.route({
  method: ["GET", "POST", "PUT"],
  handler: serve({ client: inngest, functions: [fnA] }),
  url: "/api/inngest",
});

fastify.listen({ port: 3000 }, function (err, address) {
  if (err) {
    fastify.log.error(err);
    process.exit(1);
  }
});
```
```ts {{ title: "Custom route (v2)" }}
import Fastify from "fastify";
import { serve } from "inngest/fastify";
import { inngest, fnA } from "./inngest";

const fastify = Fastify();

fastify.route({
  method: ["GET", "POST", "PUT"],
  handler: serve(inngest, [fnA]),
  url: "/api/inngest",
});

fastify.listen({ port: 3000 }, function (err, address) {
  if (err) {
    fastify.log.error(err);
    process.exit(1);
  }
});
```
</CodeGroup>

## Framework: Fresh (Deno)

Inngest works with Deno's <a href="https://fresh.deno.dev/" target="_blank" rel="nofollow">Fresh
framework</a> via the `esm.sh` CDN.  Add the serve handler to `./api/inngest.ts` as follows:

<CodeGroup>
```ts {{ title: "v3" }}
import { serve } from "https://esm.sh/inngest/deno/fresh";
import { inngest } from "./src/inngest/client.ts";
import fnA from "./src/inngest/fnA"; // Your own function

export const handler = serve({
  client: inngest,
  functions: [fnA],
});
```
```ts {{ title: "v2" }}
import { serve } from "https://esm.sh/inngest/deno/fresh";
import { inngest } from "./src/inngest/client.ts";
import fnA from "./src/inngest/fnA"; // Your own function

export const handler = serve(inngest, [fnA]);
```
</CodeGroup>

## Framework: Google Cloud Functions

Google's [Functions Framework](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/functions-framework-nodejs) has an Express-compatible API which enables you to use the Express serve handler to deploy your functions to Google's Cloud Functions or Cloud Run. This is an example of a function

<CodeGroup>
```ts {{ title: "v3" }}
import * as ff from "@google-cloud/functions-framework";
import { serve } from "inngest/express";
import { inngest } from "./src/inngest/client";
import fnA from "./src/inngest/fnA"; // Your own function

ff.http(
  "inngest",
  serve({
    client: inngest,
    functions: [fnA],
  })
);
```
```ts {{ title: "v2" }}
import * as ff from "@google-cloud/functions-framework";
import { serve } from "inngest/express";
import { inngest } from "./src/inngest/client";
import fnA from "./src/inngest/fnA"; // Your own function

ff.http('inngest', serve(inngest, [fnA]));
```
</CodeGroup>

You can run this locally with `npx @google-cloud/functions-framework --target=inngest` which will serve your Inngest functions on port `8080`.

## Framework: H3 <VersionBadge version="v2.7.0+" />

Inngest supports [H3](https://github.com/unjs/h3) and frameworks built upon it. Here's a simple H3 server that hosts serves an Inngest function.

<CodeGroup filename="index.js">
```ts {{ title: "v3" }}
import { createApp, eventHandler, toNodeListener } from "h3";
import { serve } from "inngest/h3";
import { createServer } from "node:http";
import { inngest } from "./inngest/client";
import fnA from "./inngest/fnA";

const app = createApp();
app.use(
  "/api/inngest",
  eventHandler(
    serve({
      client: inngest,
      functions: [fnA],
    })
  )
);

createServer(toNodeListener(app)).listen(process.env.PORT || 3000);
```
```ts {{ title: "v2" }}
import { createApp, eventHandler, toNodeListener } from "h3";
import { serve } from "inngest/h3";
import { createServer } from "node:http";
import { inngest } from "./inngest/client";
import fnA from "./inngest/fnA";

const app = createApp();
app.use("/api/inngest", eventHandler(serve(inngest, [fnA])));

createServer(toNodeListener(app)).listen(process.env.PORT || 3000);
```
</CodeGroup>

See the [github.com/unjs/h3](https://github.com/unjs/h3) repository for more information about how to host an H3 endpoint.

## Framework: Next.js

Inngest has first class support for Next.js API routes, allowing you to easily create the Inngest API. Both the App Router and the Pages Router are supported. For the App Router, Inngest requires `GET`, `POST`, and `PUT` methods.

<CodeGroup filename="pages/api/inngest.ts">
```typescript {{ title: "App Router" }}
// src/app/api/inngest/route.ts
import { serve } from "inngest/next";
import { inngest } from "../../../inngest/client";
import fnA from "../../../inngest/fnA"; // Your own functions

export const { GET, POST, PUT } = serve({
  client: inngest,
  functions: [fnA],
});
```
```typescript {{ title: "Pages Router" }}
// pages/api/inngest.ts
import { serve } from "inngest/next";
import { inngest } from "../../inngest/client";
import fnA from "../../inngest/fnA"; // Your own function

export default serve({
  client: inngest,
  functions: [fnA],
});
```
</CodeGroup>

### Streaming <VersionBadge version="v1.8.0+" />

Next.js Edge Functions hosted on [Vercel](/docs/deploy/vercel) can also stream responses back to Inngest, giving you a much higher request timeout of 15 minutes (up from 10 seconds on the Vercel Hobby plan!).

To enable this, set your runtime to `"edge"` (see [Quickstart for Using Edge Functions | Vercel Docs](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/functions/edge-functions/quickstart)) and add the `streaming: "allow"` option to your serve handler:

<CodeGroup>
```ts {{ title: "v3" }}
export const config = {
  runtime: "edge",
};

export default serve({
  client: inngest,
  functions: [...fns],
  streaming: "allow",
});
```
```ts {{ title: "v2" }}
export const config = {
  runtime: "edge",
};

export default serve(inngest, [...fns], {
  streaming: "allow",
});
```
</CodeGroup>

For more information, check out the [Streaming](/docs/streaming) page.

## Framework: Nuxt <VersionBadge version="v0.9.2+" />

Inngest has first class support for [Nuxt server routes](https://nuxt.com/docs/guide/directory-structure/server#server-routes), allowing you to easily create the Inngest API.
Add the following within `./server/api/inngest.ts`:

<CodeGroup>
```ts {{ title: "v3" }}
import { serve } from "inngest/nuxt";
import { inngest } from "~~/inngest/client";
import fnA from "~~/inngest/fnA"; // Your own function

export default defineEventHandler(
  serve({
    client: inngest,
    functions: [fnA],
  })
);
```
```ts {{ title: "v2" }}
import { serve } from "inngest/nuxt";
import { inngest } from "~~/inngest/client";
import fnA from "~~/inngest/fnA"; // Your own function

export default defineEventHandler(
  serve(inngest, [fnA])
);
```
</CodeGroup>

## Framework: Redwood

You can add Inngest to [Redwood](https://redwoodjs.com/) easily.  Add the following to
`api/src/functions/inngest.ts`:

<CodeGroup>
```ts {{ title: "v3" }}
import { serve } from "inngest/redwood";
import { inngest } from "src/inngest/client";
import fnA from "src/inngest/fnA"; // Your own function

export const handler = serve({
  client: inngest,
  functions: [fnA],
  servePath: "/api/inngest",
});
```
```ts {{ title: "v2" }}
import { serve } from "inngest/redwood";
import { inngest } from "src/inngest/client";
import fnA from "src/inngest/fnA"; // Your own function

export const handler = serve(
  inngest,
  [fnA],
  { servePath: "/api/inngest" }
);
```
</CodeGroup>

You should also update your `redwood.toml` to add `apiUrl = "/api"`, ensuring your API is served
at the `/api` root.

## Framework: Remix

You can add Inngest to Remix easily.  Add the following to `./app/routes/api.inngest.ts` for Remix v2 (or `./app/routes/api/inngest.ts` for Remix v1):

<CodeGroup>
```ts {{ title: "v3" }}
// app/routes/api.inngest.ts
// (for Remix 1, use app/routes/api/inngest.ts)
import { serve } from "inngest/remix";
import { inngest } from "~/inngest/client";
import fnA from "~/inngest/fnA";

const handler = serve({
  client: inngest,
  functions: [fnA],
});

export { handler as action, handler as loader };
```
```ts {{ title: "v2" }}
// app/routes/api.inngest.ts
import { serve } from "inngest/remix";
import { inngest } from "~/inngest/client";
import fnA from "~/inngest/fnA";

const handler = serve(inngest, [fnA]);

export { handler as loader, handler as action };
```
</CodeGroup>

### Streaming <VersionBadge version="v2.3.0+" />

Remix Edge Functions hosted on [Vercel](/docs/deploy/vercel) can also stream responses back to Inngest, giving you a much higher request timeout of 15 minutes (up from 10 seconds on the Vercel Hobby plan!).

To enable this, set your runtime to `"edge"` (see [Quickstart for Using Edge Functions | Vercel Docs](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/functions/edge-functions/quickstart)) and add the `streaming: "allow"` option to your serve handler:

<CodeGroup>
```ts {{ title: "v3" }}
export const config = {
  runtime: "edge",
};

const handler = serve({
  client: inngest,
  functions: [...fns],
  streaming: "allow",
});
```
```ts {{ title: "v2" }}
export const config = {
  runtime: "edge",
};

const handler = serve(inngest, [...fns], {
  streaming: "allow",
});
```
</CodeGroup>

For more information, check out the [Streaming](/docs/streaming) page.

## Reference

For more information about the `serve` handler, read the [the reference guide](/docs/reference/serve), which includes:

* [Configuration options](/docs/reference/serve#serve-client-functions-options)
* [How the serve handler works](/docs/reference/serve#how-the-serve-api-handler-works)
* [Custom framework handlers](/docs/reference/serve#custom-frameworks)

Commit message:

Document express.json limit option

pages/docs/sdk/serve.mdx, after:

# Serving the Inngest API

Inngest works by serving an HTTP API endpoint which exposes your functions for us to call on-demand.
The first thing you'll need to do is to add and serve the Inngest API in your project.

## Setting up the API

Inngest provides a `serve()` handler which adds an API endpoint to your router.  **You should always
serve our API at `/api/inngest`**, as this makes automated deploys much easier.  If you need to
change the API URL skip to [configuring the API Path](/docs/reference/serve#serve-client-functions-options).

<CodeGroup>
```ts {{ title: "v3" }}
// All serve handlers have the same arguments:
serve({
  client: inngest, // a client created with new Inngest()
  functions: [fnA, fnB], // an array of Inngest functions to serve, created with inngest.createFunction()
  /* Optional extra configuration */
});
```
```ts {{ title: "v2" }}
// All serve handlers have the same arguments:
serve(
  inngest, // a client created with new Inngest()
  [fnA, fnB], // an array of Inngest functions to serve, created with inngest.createFunction()
  {/* Optional extra configuration */}
);
```
</CodeGroup>

We provide framework-specific bindings to make this easy for common platforms:

- [AWS Lambda](#framework-aws-lambda)
- [Cloudflare](#framework-cloudflare)
- [DigitalOcean functions](#framework-digital-ocean-functions)
- [Express](#framework-express)
- [Fastify](#framework-fastify)
- [Fresh (Deno)](#framework-fresh-deno)
- [Google Cloud Functions](#framework-google-cloud-functions)
- [H3](#framework-h3)
- [Next.js](#framework-next-js)
- [Redwood](#framework-redwood)
- [Remix](#framework-remix)
- [Custom](#custom-frameworks)

Each of these bindings wrap our base API which implemnts the core logic, so adding support for new
frameworks is easy.  [Want us to add support for another platform?  Come say hi in our discord](/discord)
or [drop us a note](/contact).

## Signing key

You'll need to assign your signing key to an [`INNGEST_SIGNING_KEY`](/docs/sdk/environment-variables#inngest-signing-key) environment variable in your hosting
provider or `.env` file locally.  This lets the SDK securely communicate with Inngest.  If you can't
provide this as a signing key, you can pass it in to `serve` when setting up your framework.  [Read
the reference for more information](/docs/sdk/reference/serve#reference).

## Framework: AWS Lambda <VersionBadge version="v1.5.0+" />

We recommend using [Lambda function URLs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/lambda-urls.html) to trigger your functions, as these require no other configuration or cost.

Alternatively, you can use an API Gateway to route requests to your Lambda. The handler supports [API Gateway V1](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/http-api-develop-integrations-lambda.html) and [API Gateway V2](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/http-api-develop-integrations-lambda.html). If you are running API Gateway behind a proxy or have some other configuration, you may have to specify the `serveHost` and `servePath` options when calling `serve()` to ensure Inngest knows the URL where you are serving your functions. See [Configuring the API path](/docs/reference/serve#serve-client-functions-options) for more details.

<CodeGroup>
```ts {{ title: "v3" }}
import { serve } from "inngest/lambda";
import { inngest } from "./client";
import fnA from "./fnA"; // Your own function

export const handler = serve({
  client: inngest,
  functions: [fnA],
});
```
```ts {{ title: "v2" }}
import { serve } from "inngest/lambda";
import { inngest } from "./client";
import fnA from "./fnA"; // Your own function

export const handler = serve(inngest, [fnA]);
```
</CodeGroup>

## Framework: Cloudflare

You can import the Inngest API server when using <a href="https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/platform/functions/" target="_blank" rel="nofollow">Cloudflare pages functions</a> or workers within `/functions/api/inngest.js`:

<CodeGroup>
```ts {{ title: "v3" }}
import { serve } from "inngest/cloudflare";
import { inngest } from "../../inngest/client";
import fnA from "../../inngest/fnA"; // Your own function

export const onRequest = serve({
  client: inngest,
  functions: [fnA],
});
```
```ts {{ title: "v2" }}
import { serve } from "inngest/cloudflare";
import { inngest } from "../../inngest/client";
import fnA from "../../inngest/fnA"; // Your own function

export const onRequest = serve(inngest, [fnA]);
```
</CodeGroup>

## Framework: DigitalOcean Functions

The DigitalOcean serve function allows you to deploy Inngest to DigitalOcean serverless functions.
Because DigitalOcean doesn't provide the request URL in its function arguments, you **must** include
the function URL and path when configuring your handler:

<CodeGroup>
```ts {{ title: "v3" }}
import { serve } from "inngest/digitalocean";
import { inngest } from "./src/inngest/client";
import fnA from "./src/inngest/fnA"; // Your own function

const main = serve({
  client: inngest,
  functions: [fnA],
  // Your digitalocean hostname.  This is required otherwise your functions won't work.
  serveHost: "https://faas-sfo3-your-url.doserverless.co",
  // And your DO path, also required.
  servePath: "/api/v1/web/fn-your-uuid/inngest",
});

// IMPORTANT: Makes the function available as a module in the project.
// This is required for any functions that require external dependencies.
module.exports.main = main;
```
```ts {{ title: "v2" }}
import { serve } from "inngest/digitalocean";
import { inngest } from "./src/inngest/client";
import fnA from "./src/inngest/fnA"; // Your own function

const main = serve(inngest, [fnA], {
  // Your digitalocean hostname.  This is required otherwise your functions won't work.
  serveHost: "https://faas-sfo3-your-url.doserverless.co",
  // And your DO path, also required.
  servePath: "/api/v1/web/fn-your-uuid/inngest",
});

// IMPORTANT: Makes the function available as a module in the project.
// This is required for any functions that require external dependencies.
module.exports.main = main;
```
</CodeGroup>

## Framework: Express

You can serve Inngest functions within your existing Express app, deployed to any hosting provider
like render, fly, AWS, K8S, etc:

<CodeGroup>
```ts {{ title: "v3" }}
import { serve } from "inngest/express";
import { inngest } from "./src/inngest/client";
import fnA from "./src/inngest/fnA"; // Your own function

// Important:  ensure you add JSON middleware to process incoming JSON POST payloads.
app.use(express.json());
app.use(
  // Expose the middleware on our recommended path at `/api/inngest`.
  "/api/inngest",
  serve({ client: inngest, functions: [fnA] })
);
```
```ts {{ title: "v2" }}
import { serve } from "inngest/express";
import { inngest } from "./src/inngest/client";
import fnA from "./src/inngest/fnA"; // Your own function

// Important:  ensure you add JSON middleware to process incoming JSON POST payloads.
app.use(express.json());
app.use(
  // Expose the middleware on our recommended path at `/api/inngest`.
  "/api/inngest",
  serve(inngest, [fnA])
);
```
</CodeGroup>

You must ensure you're using the `express.json()` middleware otherwise your functions won't be
executed. **Note** - You may need to set `express.json()`'s `limit` option to something higher than the default
`100kb` to support larger event payloads and function state.

## Framework: Fastify <VersionBadge version="v2.6.0+" />

You can serve Inngest functions within your existing Fastify app.

We recommend using the exported `inngestFastify` plugin, though we also expose a generic `serve()` function if you'd like to manually create a route.

<CodeGroup>
```ts {{ title: "Plugin" }}
import Fastify from "fastify";
import inngestFastify from "inngest/fastify";
import { inngest, fnA } from "./inngest";

const fastify = Fastify();

fastify.register(inngestFastify, {
  client: inngest,
  functions: [fnA],
  options: {},
});

fastify.listen({ port: 3000 }, function (err, address) {
  if (err) {
    fastify.log.error(err);
    process.exit(1);
  }
});
```
```ts {{ title: "Custom route (v3)" }}
import Fastify from "fastify";
import { serve } from "inngest/fastify";
import { fnA, inngest } from "./inngest";

const fastify = Fastify();

fastify.route({
  method: ["GET", "POST", "PUT"],
  handler: serve({ client: inngest, functions: [fnA] }),
  url: "/api/inngest",
});

fastify.listen({ port: 3000 }, function (err, address) {
  if (err) {
    fastify.log.error(err);
    process.exit(1);
  }
});
```
```ts {{ title: "Custom route (v2)" }}
import Fastify from "fastify";
import { serve } from "inngest/fastify";
import { inngest, fnA } from "./inngest";

const fastify = Fastify();

fastify.route({
  method: ["GET", "POST", "PUT"],
  handler: serve(inngest, [fnA]),
  url: "/api/inngest",
});

fastify.listen({ port: 3000 }, function (err, address) {
  if (err) {
    fastify.log.error(err);
    process.exit(1);
  }
});
```
</CodeGroup>

## Framework: Fresh (Deno)

Inngest works with Deno's <a href="https://fresh.deno.dev/" target="_blank" rel="nofollow">Fresh
framework</a> via the `esm.sh` CDN.  Add the serve handler to `./api/inngest.ts` as follows:

<CodeGroup>
```ts {{ title: "v3" }}
import { serve } from "https://esm.sh/inngest/deno/fresh";
import { inngest } from "./src/inngest/client.ts";
import fnA from "./src/inngest/fnA"; // Your own function

export const handler = serve({
  client: inngest,
  functions: [fnA],
});
```
```ts {{ title: "v2" }}
import { serve } from "https://esm.sh/inngest/deno/fresh";
import { inngest } from "./src/inngest/client.ts";
import fnA from "./src/inngest/fnA"; // Your own function

export const handler = serve(inngest, [fnA]);
```
</CodeGroup>

## Framework: Google Cloud Functions

Google's [Functions Framework](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/functions-framework-nodejs) has an Express-compatible API which enables you to use the Express serve handler to deploy your functions to Google's Cloud Functions or Cloud Run. This is an example of a function

<CodeGroup>
```ts {{ title: "v3" }}
import * as ff from "@google-cloud/functions-framework";
import { serve } from "inngest/express";
import { inngest } from "./src/inngest/client";
import fnA from "./src/inngest/fnA"; // Your own function

ff.http(
  "inngest",
  serve({
    client: inngest,
    functions: [fnA],
  })
);
```
```ts {{ title: "v2" }}
import * as ff from "@google-cloud/functions-framework";
import { serve } from "inngest/express";
import { inngest } from "./src/inngest/client";
import fnA from "./src/inngest/fnA"; // Your own function

ff.http('inngest', serve(inngest, [fnA]));
```
</CodeGroup>

You can run this locally with `npx @google-cloud/functions-framework --target=inngest` which will serve your Inngest functions on port `8080`.

## Framework: H3 <VersionBadge version="v2.7.0+" />

Inngest supports [H3](https://github.com/unjs/h3) and frameworks built upon it. Here's a simple H3 server that hosts serves an Inngest function.

<CodeGroup filename="index.js">
```ts {{ title: "v3" }}
import { createApp, eventHandler, toNodeListener } from "h3";
import { serve } from "inngest/h3";
import { createServer } from "node:http";
import { inngest } from "./inngest/client";
import fnA from "./inngest/fnA";

const app = createApp();
app.use(
  "/api/inngest",
  eventHandler(
    serve({
      client: inngest,
      functions: [fnA],
    })
  )
);

createServer(toNodeListener(app)).listen(process.env.PORT || 3000);
```
```ts {{ title: "v2" }}
import { createApp, eventHandler, toNodeListener } from "h3";
import { serve } from "inngest/h3";
import { createServer } from "node:http";
import { inngest } from "./inngest/client";
import fnA from "./inngest/fnA";

const app = createApp();
app.use("/api/inngest", eventHandler(serve(inngest, [fnA])));

createServer(toNodeListener(app)).listen(process.env.PORT || 3000);
```
</CodeGroup>

See the [github.com/unjs/h3](https://github.com/unjs/h3) repository for more information about how to host an H3 endpoint.

## Framework: Next.js

Inngest has first class support for Next.js API routes, allowing you to easily create the Inngest API. Both the App Router and the Pages Router are supported. For the App Router, Inngest requires `GET`, `POST`, and `PUT` methods.

<CodeGroup filename="pages/api/inngest.ts">
```typescript {{ title: "App Router" }}
// src/app/api/inngest/route.ts
import { serve } from "inngest/next";
import { inngest } from "../../../inngest/client";
import fnA from "../../../inngest/fnA"; // Your own functions

export const { GET, POST, PUT } = serve({
  client: inngest,
  functions: [fnA],
});
```
```typescript {{ title: "Pages Router" }}
// pages/api/inngest.ts
import { serve } from "inngest/next";
import { inngest } from "../../inngest/client";
import fnA from "../../inngest/fnA"; // Your own function

export default serve({
  client: inngest,
  functions: [fnA],
});
```
</CodeGroup>

### Streaming <VersionBadge version="v1.8.0+" />

Next.js Edge Functions hosted on [Vercel](/docs/deploy/vercel) can also stream responses back to Inngest, giving you a much higher request timeout of 15 minutes (up from 10 seconds on the Vercel Hobby plan!).

To enable this, set your runtime to `"edge"` (see [Quickstart for Using Edge Functions | Vercel Docs](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/functions/edge-functions/quickstart)) and add the `streaming: "allow"` option to your serve handler:

<CodeGroup>
```ts {{ title: "v3" }}
export const config = {
  runtime: "edge",
};

export default serve({
  client: inngest,
  functions: [...fns],
  streaming: "allow",
});
```
```ts {{ title: "v2" }}
export const config = {
  runtime: "edge",
};

export default serve(inngest, [...fns], {
  streaming: "allow",
});
```
</CodeGroup>

For more information, check out the [Streaming](/docs/streaming) page.

## Framework: Nuxt <VersionBadge version="v0.9.2+" />

Inngest has first class support for [Nuxt server routes](https://nuxt.com/docs/guide/directory-structure/server#server-routes), allowing you to easily create the Inngest API.
Add the following within `./server/api/inngest.ts`:

<CodeGroup>
```ts {{ title: "v3" }}
import { serve } from "inngest/nuxt";
import { inngest } from "~~/inngest/client";
import fnA from "~~/inngest/fnA"; // Your own function

export default defineEventHandler(
  serve({
    client: inngest,
    functions: [fnA],
  })
);
```
```ts {{ title: "v2" }}
import { serve } from "inngest/nuxt";
import { inngest } from "~~/inngest/client";
import fnA from "~~/inngest/fnA"; // Your own function

export default defineEventHandler(
  serve(inngest, [fnA])
);
```
</CodeGroup>

## Framework: Redwood

You can add Inngest to [Redwood](https://redwoodjs.com/) easily.  Add the following to
`api/src/functions/inngest.ts`:

<CodeGroup>
```ts {{ title: "v3" }}
import { serve } from "inngest/redwood";
import { inngest } from "src/inngest/client";
import fnA from "src/inngest/fnA"; // Your own function

export const handler = serve({
  client: inngest,
  functions: [fnA],
  servePath: "/api/inngest",
});
```
```ts {{ title: "v2" }}
import { serve } from "inngest/redwood";
import { inngest } from "src/inngest/client";
import fnA from "src/inngest/fnA"; // Your own function

export const handler = serve(
  inngest,
  [fnA],
  { servePath: "/api/inngest" }
);
```
</CodeGroup>

You should also update your `redwood.toml` to add `apiUrl = "/api"`, ensuring your API is served
at the `/api` root.

## Framework: Remix

You can add Inngest to Remix easily.  Add the following to `./app/routes/api.inngest.ts` for Remix v2 (or `./app/routes/api/inngest.ts` for Remix v1):

<CodeGroup>
```ts {{ title: "v3" }}
// app/routes/api.inngest.ts
// (for Remix 1, use app/routes/api/inngest.ts)
import { serve } from "inngest/remix";
import { inngest } from "~/inngest/client";
import fnA from "~/inngest/fnA";

const handler = serve({
  client: inngest,
  functions: [fnA],
});

export { handler as action, handler as loader };
```
```ts {{ title: "v2" }}
// app/routes/api.inngest.ts
import { serve } from "inngest/remix";
import { inngest } from "~/inngest/client";
import fnA from "~/inngest/fnA";

const handler = serve(inngest, [fnA]);

export { handler as loader, handler as action };
```
</CodeGroup>

### Streaming <VersionBadge version="v2.3.0+" />

Remix Edge Functions hosted on [Vercel](/docs/deploy/vercel) can also stream responses back to Inngest, giving you a much higher request timeout of 15 minutes (up from 10 seconds on the Vercel Hobby plan!).

To enable this, set your runtime to `"edge"` (see [Quickstart for Using Edge Functions | Vercel Docs](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/functions/edge-functions/quickstart)) and add the `streaming: "allow"` option to your serve handler:

<CodeGroup>
```ts {{ title: "v3" }}
export const config = {
  runtime: "edge",
};

const handler = serve({
  client: inngest,
  functions: [...fns],
  streaming: "allow",
});
```
```ts {{ title: "v2" }}
export const config = {
  runtime: "edge",
};

const handler = serve(inngest, [...fns], {
  streaming: "allow",
});
```
</CodeGroup>

For more information, check out the [Streaming](/docs/streaming) page.

## Reference

For more information about the `serve` handler, read the [the reference guide](/docs/reference/serve), which includes:

* [Configuration options](/docs/reference/serve#serve-client-functions-options)
* [How the serve handler works](/docs/reference/serve#how-the-serve-api-handler-works)
* [Custom framework handlers](/docs/reference/serve#custom-frameworks)
