pages/docs/reference/events/send.mdx, before:

# Send Events

Send events to Inngest. Functions with matching event triggers will be invoked.

```ts
import { inngest } from "./client";

await inngest.send({
  name: "app/account.created",
  data: {
    accountId: "645e9f6794e10937e9bdc201",
    billingPlan: "pro",
  },
  user: {
    external_id: "645ea000129f1c40109ca7ad",
    email: "taylor@example.com",
  }
})
```

To send events from within of the context of a function, use [`step.sendEvent()`](/docs/reference/functions/step-send-event).

---


## `inngest.send(eventPayload | eventPayload[]): Promise`
{/* TODO - Show the event ids in the return value when we add to the SDK */}
{/*## `inngest.send(eventPayload | eventPayload[]): Promise<string[]>`*/}

<Row>
  <Col>
    <Properties>
      <Property name="eventPayload" type="object | object[]" required>
        An event payload object or an array of event payload objects.

        <Properties nested={true}>
          <Property name="name" type="string" required>
            The event name. We recommend using lowercase dot notation for names, prepending `prefixes/` with a slash for organization.
          </Property>
          <Property name="data" type="object" required>
            Any data to associate with the event. Will be serialized as JSON.
          </Property>
          <Property name="user" type="object">
            Any relevant user identifying data or attributes associated with the event. **This data is encrypted at rest.**
            <Properties nested>
              <Property name="external_id" type="string">
                An external identifier for the user. Most commonly, their user id in your system.
              </Property>
            </Properties>
          </Property>
          <Property name="id" type="string">
            A unique id used to idempotently ingest a given event payload once (i.e. deduplication).
          </Property>
          <Property name="ts" type="number">
            A timestamp integer representing the time (in milliseconds) at which the event occurred. Defaults to the time the Inngest receives the event.
          </Property>
          <Property name="v" type="string">
            A version identifier for a particular event payload. e.g. `"2023-04-14.1"`
          </Property>
        </Properties>
      </Property>
    </Properties>
  </Col>
  <Col>
  ```ts
  // Send a single event
  await inngest.send({
    name: "app/post.created",
    data: { postId: "01H08SEAXBJFJNGTTZ5TAWB0BD" }
  })

  // Send an array of events
  await inngest.send([
    {
      name: "app/invoice.created",
      data: { invoiceId: "645e9e024befa68763f5b500" }
    },
    {
      name: "app/invoice.created",
      data: { invoiceId: "645e9e08f29fb563c972b1f7" }
    },
  ])

  // Send user data that will be encrypted at rest
  await inngest.send({
    name: "app/account.created",
    data: { billingPlan: "pro" },
    user: {
      external_id: "6463da8211cdbbcb191dd7da",
      email: "test@example.com"
    }
  })

  // Specify the idempotency id, version, and timestamp
  await inngest.send({
    // Use an id specific to the event type & payload
    id: "cart-checkout-completed-ed12c8bde",
    name: "storefront/cart.checkout.completed",
    data: { cartId: "ed12c8bde" },
    user: { external_id: "6463da8211cdbbcb191dd7da" },
    ts: 1684274328198,
    v: "2024-05-15.1"
  });
  ```
  </Col>
</Row>

## User data encryption 🔐

All data sent in the `user` object is fully encrypted at rest. Each unique user gets their own encryption key and when you delete the user from our system, which helps comply with GDPR and CCPA.

An API is planned to allow you to do this programmatically which will use the `user.external_id` (see above) to perform the delete operation.


## Send Events via HTTP API

You can send events from any system or programming language with our simple API and an Inngest Event Key. The API accepts a single event payload or an array of event payloads.

<CodeGroup tag="POST" label="inn.gs/e/:eventKey">

```bash {{ title: 'cURL' }}
curl https://inn.gs/e/$INNGEST_EVENT_KEY \
  --data '{
    "name": "user.signup",
    "data": {
      "userId": "645ea8289ad09eac29230442"
    }
  }'
```

```php
$url = "https://inn.gs/e/{$eventKey}";
$content = json_encode([
    "name" => "user.signup",
    "data" => [
      "userId" => "645ea8289ad09eac29230442",
    ],
]);

$curl = curl_init($url);
curl_setopt($curl, CURLOPT_HEADER, false);
curl_setopt($curl, CURLOPT_RETURNTRANSFER, true);
curl_setopt($curl, CURLOPT_HTTPHEADER, ["Content-type: application/json"]);
curl_setopt($curl, CURLOPT_POST, true);
curl_setopt($curl, CURLOPT_POSTFIELDS, $content);

$json_response = curl_exec($curl);
$status = curl_getinfo($curl, CURLINFO_HTTP_CODE);
if ($status != 200) {
    return [
        'status' => $status,
        'message' => "Error: call to URL $url failed with status $status, response $json_response, curl_error " . curl_error($curl) . ", curl_errno " . curl_errno($curl),
    ];
}

curl_close($curl);
$response = json_decode($json_response, true);
```

</CodeGroup>

```json {{ title: 'Response' }}
{
  "ids": ["01H08W4TMBNKMEWFD0TYC532GG"],
  "status": 200
}
```

Commit message:

Document sending events to branch env

pages/docs/reference/events/send.mdx, after:

# Send Events

Send events to Inngest. Functions with matching event triggers will be invoked.

```ts
import { inngest } from "./client";

await inngest.send({
  name: "app/account.created",
  data: {
    accountId: "645e9f6794e10937e9bdc201",
    billingPlan: "pro",
  },
  user: {
    external_id: "645ea000129f1c40109ca7ad",
    email: "taylor@example.com",
  }
})
```

To send events from within of the context of a function, use [`step.sendEvent()`](/docs/reference/functions/step-send-event).

---


## `inngest.send(eventPayload | eventPayload[]): Promise`
{/* TODO - Show the event ids in the return value when we add to the SDK */}
{/*## `inngest.send(eventPayload | eventPayload[]): Promise<string[]>`*/}

<Row>
  <Col>
    <Properties>
      <Property name="eventPayload" type="object | object[]" required>
        An event payload object or an array of event payload objects.

        <Properties nested={true}>
          <Property name="name" type="string" required>
            The event name. We recommend using lowercase dot notation for names, prepending `prefixes/` with a slash for organization.
          </Property>
          <Property name="data" type="object" required>
            Any data to associate with the event. Will be serialized as JSON.
          </Property>
          <Property name="user" type="object">
            Any relevant user identifying data or attributes associated with the event. **This data is encrypted at rest.**
            <Properties nested>
              <Property name="external_id" type="string">
                An external identifier for the user. Most commonly, their user id in your system.
              </Property>
            </Properties>
          </Property>
          <Property name="id" type="string">
            A unique id used to idempotently ingest a given event payload once (i.e. deduplication).
          </Property>
          <Property name="ts" type="number">
            A timestamp integer representing the time (in milliseconds) at which the event occurred. Defaults to the time the Inngest receives the event.
          </Property>
          <Property name="v" type="string">
            A version identifier for a particular event payload. e.g. `"2023-04-14.1"`
          </Property>
        </Properties>
      </Property>
    </Properties>
  </Col>
  <Col>
  ```ts
  // Send a single event
  await inngest.send({
    name: "app/post.created",
    data: { postId: "01H08SEAXBJFJNGTTZ5TAWB0BD" }
  })

  // Send an array of events
  await inngest.send([
    {
      name: "app/invoice.created",
      data: { invoiceId: "645e9e024befa68763f5b500" }
    },
    {
      name: "app/invoice.created",
      data: { invoiceId: "645e9e08f29fb563c972b1f7" }
    },
  ])

  // Send user data that will be encrypted at rest
  await inngest.send({
    name: "app/account.created",
    data: { billingPlan: "pro" },
    user: {
      external_id: "6463da8211cdbbcb191dd7da",
      email: "test@example.com"
    }
  })

  // Specify the idempotency id, version, and timestamp
  await inngest.send({
    // Use an id specific to the event type & payload
    id: "cart-checkout-completed-ed12c8bde",
    name: "storefront/cart.checkout.completed",
    data: { cartId: "ed12c8bde" },
    user: { external_id: "6463da8211cdbbcb191dd7da" },
    ts: 1684274328198,
    v: "2024-05-15.1"
  });
  ```
  </Col>
</Row>

## User data encryption 🔐

All data sent in the `user` object is fully encrypted at rest. Each unique user gets their own encryption key and when you delete the user from our system, which helps comply with GDPR and CCPA.

An API is planned to allow you to do this programmatically which will use the `user.external_id` (see above) to perform the delete operation.


## Send Events via HTTP (Event API)

You can send events from any system or programming language with our simple API and an Inngest Event Key. The API accepts a single event payload or an array of event payloads.

To send an event to a specific [branch environment](/docs/platform/environments#branch-environments), set the `x-inngest-env` header to the name of your branch environment, e.g. `x-inngest-env: feature/my-branch`.

<CodeGroup tag="POST" label="inn.gs/e/:eventKey">

```bash {{ title: 'cURL' }}
curl https://inn.gs/e/$INNGEST_EVENT_KEY \
  --data '{
    "name": "user.signup",
    "data": {
      "userId": "645ea8289ad09eac29230442"
    }
  }'
```

```php
$url = "https://inn.gs/e/{$eventKey}";
$content = json_encode([
    "name" => "user.signup",
    "data" => [
      "userId" => "645ea8289ad09eac29230442",
    ],
]);

$curl = curl_init($url);
curl_setopt($curl, CURLOPT_HEADER, false);
curl_setopt($curl, CURLOPT_RETURNTRANSFER, true);
curl_setopt($curl, CURLOPT_HTTPHEADER, ["Content-type: application/json"]);
curl_setopt($curl, CURLOPT_POST, true);
curl_setopt($curl, CURLOPT_POSTFIELDS, $content);

$json_response = curl_exec($curl);
$status = curl_getinfo($curl, CURLINFO_HTTP_CODE);
if ($status != 200) {
    return [
        'status' => $status,
        'message' => "Error: call to URL $url failed with status $status, response $json_response, curl_error " . curl_error($curl) . ", curl_errno " . curl_errno($curl),
    ];
}

curl_close($curl);
$response = json_decode($json_response, true);
```

</CodeGroup>

```json {{ title: 'Response' }}
{
  "ids": ["01H08W4TMBNKMEWFD0TYC532GG"],
  "status": 200
}
```
