pages/docs/functions/retries.mdx, before:

# Handling Errors & Retries

When functions fail, Inngest can retry them automatically. Whether Inngest retries your function is determined by _how_ it fails.

## Types of failures

There are two ways that functions are determined to have failed:

* A function throws an error. ✅ This **_will_** be retried ([see retry policies](#retry-policies))

```ts
export default inngest.createFunction(
  { name: "Import item data" },
  { event: "import.requested" },
  async ({ event }) => {
    throw new Error("Failed to fetch item from ecommerce API");
  },
);
```

* A function throws a non-retriable error. ❌ This **_will not_** be retried.

```ts
import { NonRetriableError } from "inngest";

export default inngest.createFunction("Mark store as imported", "import.completed", ({ event }) => {
  try {
    const result = await database.updateStore({ id: event.data.storeId }, { imported: true });
    return result.ok === true;
  } catch (err) {
    // Passing the original error via `cause` enables you to view the error in function logs
    throw new NonRetriableError("Store not found", { cause: err });
  }
});
```

## Errors within steps

Steps are individually retried. That means Inngest will handle the type of error, just as above, but on the per-step basis.

```ts
import { NonRetriableError } from "inngest";

export default inngest.createFunction(
  { name: "Import store items" },
  { event: "ecommerce/import.required" },
  async ({ event, tools }) => {
    const items = await step.run("Get items from API", async () => {
      // Third party APIs can often fail (e.g. because of a network or rate limit issue),
      // if this call fails, Inngest will attempt to retry this step
      return await ecommerceAPI.getItems(event.data.itemIds);
    });

    const store = await step.run("Get store in database", async () => {
      try {
        return await database.getStore(event.data.storeId);
      } catch (err) {
        // Store was not found - the step and function should not be retried
        throw new NonRetriableError("Could not find store in database", {
          cause: err,
        });
      }
    });

    // If either of the above steps
    await step.run("Import items for store", () => {
      /* ... */
    });
  }
);
```

To illustrate how this logic might work, let's use the above code and explain how the two types of errors will be handled across the life of an entire function run:

**Scenario**: The API has a major outage and all 3 attempts of the first step fail:

```plaintext
┌ Function: "Import store items" triggered by new "ecommerce/import.required" event
├─┬ Step: "Get items from API" started
│ ├ Attempt 1: ❌ Error thrown
│ ├ Attempt 2: ❌ Error thrown
│ └ Attempt 3: ❌ Error thrown
├── Step: "Get store in database" skipped
├── Step: "Import items for store" skipped
└ ❌ Function run failed
```

**Scenario**: The API responds perfectly, but somehow the user has since deleted the "store" from the database:

```plaintext
┌ Function: "Import store items" triggered by new "ecommerce/import.required" event
├─┬ Step: "Get items from API" started
│ └ Attempt 1: ✅ Successful
├─┬ Step: "Get store in database" started
│ └ Attempt 1: ❌ NonRetriableError thrown
├── Step: "Import items for store" skipped
└ ❌ Function run failed
```

**Scenario**: The API has a minor blip, but it's retried and everything else runs smoothly:

```plaintext
┌ Function: "Import store items" triggered by new "ecommerce/import.required" event
├─┬ Step: "Get items from API" started
│ ├ Attempt 1: ❌ Error thrown
│ ├ Attempt 2: ✅ Successful
├─┬ Step: "Get store in database" started
│ └ Attempt 1: ✅ Successful
├─┬ Step: "Import items for store" skipped
│ └ Attempt 1: ✅ Successful
└ ✅ Function run successful
```



## Retry policies

By default, each function is retried 3 times using [backoff](https://github.com/inngest/inngest/blob/main/pkg/backoff/backoff.go#L10-L22) with jitter.

* **Successful** - No error thrown. This will not be retried.
* **Non-retriable error** - A `NonRetriableError` was thrown (think: `404`). This will not be retried.
* **Error** - Any error was thrown indicating a potentially temporary failure (think: `500`). **This will be retried according to the retry policy (3 times, by default)**.

You can customize the number of retries directly from your function configuration:

```typescript
import { Inngest } from "inngest";

const inngest = new Inngest({ name: "My app" });

export default inngest.createFunction(
  {
    name: "Handle form",
    retries: 10, // Choose the number of retries you'd liie.
  },
  { event: "api/form.submitted" },
  }
);
```

[Retries follow this backoff schedule](https://github.com/inngest/inngest/blob/main/pkg/backoff/backoff.go#L10-L22), with 0-30 seconds of random jitter added.

Commit message:

INN-1144: Add handling failures reference

pages/docs/functions/retries.mdx, after:

# Handling Errors & Retries

When functions fail, Inngest can retry them automatically. Whether Inngest retries your function is determined by _how_ it fails. To learn how to handle function failures, [read the reference guide here](/docs/reference/functions/handling-failures).

## Types of failures

There are two ways that functions are determined to have failed:

* A function throws an error. ✅ This **_will_** be retried ([see retry policies](#retry-policies))

```ts
export default inngest.createFunction(
  { name: "Import item data" },
  { event: "import.requested" },
  async ({ event }) => {
    throw new Error("Failed to fetch item from ecommerce API");
  },
);
```

* A function throws a non-retriable error. ❌ This **_will not_** be retried.

```ts
import { NonRetriableError } from "inngest";

export default inngest.createFunction("Mark store as imported", "import.completed", ({ event }) => {
  try {
    const result = await database.updateStore({ id: event.data.storeId }, { imported: true });
    return result.ok === true;
  } catch (err) {
    // Passing the original error via `cause` enables you to view the error in function logs
    throw new NonRetriableError("Store not found", { cause: err });
  }
});
```

## Errors within steps

Steps are individually retried. That means Inngest will handle the type of error, just as above, but on the per-step basis.

```ts
import { NonRetriableError } from "inngest";

export default inngest.createFunction(
  { name: "Import store items" },
  { event: "ecommerce/import.required" },
  async ({ event, tools }) => {
    const items = await step.run("Get items from API", async () => {
      // Third party APIs can often fail (e.g. because of a network or rate limit issue),
      // if this call fails, Inngest will attempt to retry this step
      return await ecommerceAPI.getItems(event.data.itemIds);
    });

    const store = await step.run("Get store in database", async () => {
      try {
        return await database.getStore(event.data.storeId);
      } catch (err) {
        // Store was not found - the step and function should not be retried
        throw new NonRetriableError("Could not find store in database", {
          cause: err,
        });
      }
    });

    // If either of the above steps
    await step.run("Import items for store", () => {
      /* ... */
    });
  }
);
```

To illustrate how this logic might work, let's use the above code and explain how the two types of errors will be handled across the life of an entire function run:

**Scenario**: The API has a major outage and all 3 attempts of the first step fail:

```plaintext
┌ Function: "Import store items" triggered by new "ecommerce/import.required" event
├─┬ Step: "Get items from API" started
│ ├ Attempt 1: ❌ Error thrown
│ ├ Attempt 2: ❌ Error thrown
│ └ Attempt 3: ❌ Error thrown
├── Step: "Get store in database" skipped
├── Step: "Import items for store" skipped
└ ❌ Function run failed
```

**Scenario**: The API responds perfectly, but somehow the user has since deleted the "store" from the database:

```plaintext
┌ Function: "Import store items" triggered by new "ecommerce/import.required" event
├─┬ Step: "Get items from API" started
│ └ Attempt 1: ✅ Successful
├─┬ Step: "Get store in database" started
│ └ Attempt 1: ❌ NonRetriableError thrown
├── Step: "Import items for store" skipped
└ ❌ Function run failed
```

**Scenario**: The API has a minor blip, but it's retried and everything else runs smoothly:

```plaintext
┌ Function: "Import store items" triggered by new "ecommerce/import.required" event
├─┬ Step: "Get items from API" started
│ ├ Attempt 1: ❌ Error thrown
│ ├ Attempt 2: ✅ Successful
├─┬ Step: "Get store in database" started
│ └ Attempt 1: ✅ Successful
├─┬ Step: "Import items for store" skipped
│ └ Attempt 1: ✅ Successful
└ ✅ Function run successful
```



## Retry policies

By default, each function is retried 3 times using [backoff](https://github.com/inngest/inngest/blob/main/pkg/backoff/backoff.go#L10-L22) with jitter.

* **Successful** - No error thrown. This will not be retried.
* **Non-retriable error** - A `NonRetriableError` was thrown (think: `404`). This will not be retried.
* **Error** - Any error was thrown indicating a potentially temporary failure (think: `500`). **This will be retried according to the retry policy (3 times, by default)**.

You can customize the number of retries directly from your function configuration:

```typescript
import { Inngest } from "inngest";

const inngest = new Inngest({ name: "My app" });

export default inngest.createFunction(
  {
    name: "Handle form",
    retries: 10, // Choose the number of retries you'd liie.
  },
  { event: "api/form.submitted" },
  }
);
```

[Retries follow this backoff schedule](https://github.com/inngest/inngest/blob/main/pkg/backoff/backoff.go#L10-L22), with 0-30 seconds of random jitter added.
